GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
JUNE 20 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL IF YOU'RE
ABLE PLEASE RISE AND JOIN US
FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
TO HAVE SIGNS IN
THE IN THE FRONT PLEASE SIGNS
BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL SO AS NOT
TO OBSTRUCT THE VIEW OF OTHER
PARTICIPANTS THAT ARE SOME AS
FINALLY PLEASE LOWER YOUR SIGN
.
IT IS NOT IT IS NOT BELOW
SHOULDER LEVEL.
IT IS OBSTRUCTING FOLKS BEHIND
YOU.
THAT'S THE RULE WITH RESPECT TO
SIGNAGE.
THANK YOU
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL WHAT I PLEASE
CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
HERE
FOR HARRISON HAFA OUR DENHA
CARE OF OUR GRACIELLA HERE WE
ARE HERE RIGHT HERE CUSTOMER
AKMAN HERE, CUSTOMER BRIGG'S
HERE TELLS MARCANO HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM MOTION NEEDS TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IASI COUNCIL
MEMBER KERNELL DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
POSED THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
YOU HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FOR THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
BRISKY THERE WE GO.
>> BRIEF COMMUNICATION MR.
MAYOR.
THANK YOU.
YOU'LL NOTICE I AM NOT THE ONLY
MY NAME IS JOHN FOURNIER.
I'M THE DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FILLING IN FOR
MR. DE TONY TONIGHT AND PLEASED
TO BE HERE.
THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
SECONDARILY, I WILL SECONDARILY
I WILL NOTE ONE ITEM I JUST
WANT TO RECOGNIZE JACKIE
BOUDREAU, OUR MUNICIPAL CLERK
WAS JUST LAST WEEK INSTALLED AS
THE PRESIDENT OF THE MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION OF MUNICIPAL CLERKS
,WHICH IS EXCELLENT
RECOGNITION FOR NOT JUST HER
MANY COUNTIES AND ELECTIONS
ADMINISTRATOR BUT THE IMPORTANT
WORK SHE DOES STATE WIDE TO
SUPPORT ELECTION INTEGRITY.
SO WITH THAT, MR. MAYOR, WELL,
IT'S A LITTLE OUT OF ORDER BUT
I WILL SAY MISSOURI WELL DONE.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE TODAY AROUND YOUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
AWARDS.
I BELIEVE MISS THATCHER IS IN
THE HOUSE.
MISS THATCHER, PLEASE JOIN ME
LATER.
MY APOLOGIES
TO TOM MANN WITH
THE SHORT LADY.
>> THERE YOU GO.
YOU'LL PROVIDE THE TOUGHNESS
RIGHT HERE.
MY FAMILY CALLS ME SISU FOR
SISTER TO FINISH WORK.
THAT MEANS TOUGH SO YOU GOT IT.
SO AM I STARTING TILL SHE'S
GOING TO PUT SOMETHING UP ON
THE SCREEN
WHERE THERE IS LIGHT
GOING UP THERE TOO.
OH THERE.
OK, OK, GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN YOU HEAR ME THIS REALLY LOW
.
THERE THEY GO RIGHT KNEW
SOMETHING WAS MISSING.
OH ALL RIGHT.
OH OH MY GOD.
OH MY GOODNESS NO WHAT DO I DO
NOW WAIT FOR
THANK YOU.
TAKE TAKETO I AGAIN.
HI MY NAME IS SUSAN WINESBURG.
I'M OF THE HTC.
>> IT MIGHT HELP IF I PUT MY
GLASSES.
OOPS UP.
>> IT'S WARM IN HERE I AM A
CHAIR OF THE HTC AWARDS
COMMITTEE.
I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR GIVING
THE TIME TO PRESENT THE
NORMALLY ANNUAL HTC AWARDS.
WE'VE MISSED YOU THESE PAST
THREE YEARS THIS YEAR WE ARE
PRESENTING AWARDS FOR
PRESERVATION REHABILITATION
CENTER NEEL'S AND SPECIAL
MERIT.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO THANK THE
COMMITTEE THAT SELECTED THE
AWARDS.
PATRICIA AUSTON GRACE SHACKMAN,
FRANCIS WRIGHT, TOM STOLLBERG,
ELLEN RAMSBURG AND NOW GORDON
H.
SPECIAL THANKS ARE OWED TO OUR
INCOMPARABLE STAFF PERSON JILL
THATCHER.
WE BELIEVE THAT ARCHITECTURE IS
AN ART FORM WHICH GIVES BEAUTY
TO THE PUBLIC EVERY DAY AS THEY
DRIVE BIKE OR WALK THROUGH
TOWN.
TONIGHT CHARITIES HAVE
GENEROUSLY PROVIDED THIS BEAUTY
TO US AND WE WANT TO SHOW THAT
WE APPRECIATE THEIR WORK.
THANK YOU AWARDS FOR THIS
BEAUTIFUL GIFT AND THE FIRST
AWARD IS FOR PRESERVATION
PRESERVATION AWARDS ARE
PRESENTED IN RECOGNITION
OF SUPERIOR MAINTENANCE OF A
SIGNIFICANT PROPERTY TO
PRESERVE ITS ESSENTIAL
HISTORICAL, CULTURAL OR
ARCHITECTURAL VALUE FOR A
PERIOD OF TEN YEARS OR MORE.
AND THE FIRST AWARD GOES TO TWO
ONE ONE FIVE MELROSE AVENUE
WHICH IS UP ON THE SCREEN.
THIS IS TO CANDICE AND PENELOPE
FISHER, THIS HANDSOME TO THE
REVIVAL HOME WAS BUILT IN
NINETEEN TWENTY NINE FOR JAMES
DALE, AN INSURANCE SALESMAN, IT
FEATURES A STEEPLY PITCHED ROOF
PROMINENT CHIMNEYS, RANDOMLY
EXTRUDED BRICKS, CASEMENT
WINDOWS AND AN ARCHED UP FRONT
DOOR THAT COMBINE TO GIVE THE
HOUSE A PARTICULARLY MEDIEVAL
VIBE.
IT HAS BEEN THE HOME OF KEN AND
ANDY FISHER SINCE NINETEEN
EIGHTY EIGHT UNDER HERE NO OK
IT'S HARD TO GIVE AWARDS AND
JOAN EVERYBODY'S AWAY AFTER THE
NEXT AWARD GOES TO THE CHURCH
THE GOOD SHEPHERD AT TWO ONE
FOUR FIVE INDEPENDENCE
BOULEVARD.
THE CHURCH OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD
IS A NEW CENTURY MODERN CHURCH
DESIGNED BY LOCAL ARCHITECT
ROBERT METCALF AND BUILT BY
ARTHUR TERZIC IN NINETEEN FIFTY
SEVEN.
IT IS A BEAUTIFUL EXAMPLE OF A
NON RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE
DESIGNED BY METCALF AND HAS
BEEN WONDERFULLY MAINTAINED BY
THE CHURCH.
ITS ORIGINAL ORIGINAL
UNDULATING ROOF WAS REPEATED
AND IN ADDITION THAT WAS BUILT
IN TWO THOUSAND FIVE.
>> ANYONE FROM THE CHURCH WHEN
YOU TELL US YOUR NAME NAMES
JANET MEANS JANET.
YES AND I WAS ON THE
RESTORATION COMMITTEE.
OH GREAT CHAIR THE COMMITTEE
WHEN THE CHURCH WAS RENOVATED.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
THE NEXT PRESERVATION AWARD
GOES TO ROBERT AND MARTHA
ELLIS.
I'M NOT SURE I'M SEEING IT
RIGHT.
I SEE A OSSIE AT EIGHTEEN
TWENTY ONE SHARED DRIVE THIS
CENTURY MODERN STRUCTURE WAS
THE HOME OF LOCAL ARCHITECT
JAMES LIVINGSTON AND BUILT IN
NINETEEN FIFTY EIGHT LIVINGSTON
DESIGNED MANY HOUSES IN THIS
AREA IN THE NINETEEN FIFTIES HE
ALSO DESIGNED LARRY TERRACE
MAYNARD HOUSE WEBERS IN LATIN
SCHOOL AND MANY HOUSES IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
THORN OAKS HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE HOME IS OWNED BEAUTIFULLY
MAINTAINED BY ROBERT AND MARTHA
OUSA SINCE AZRI SINCE NINETEEN
SIXTY FIVE I BELIEVE OBVIOUSLY
YOU'RE HERE
.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANKS.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANK YOU FOR WHAT YOU'VE DONE
.
OK NEXT.
OOPS.
>> THE NEXT PRESERVATION AWARD
GOES TO AND A MAP AND ADAM
NETSUKE METZKER FOR TWENTY TWO
FORTY BELLMONT WROTE THIS MID
CENTURY MODERN YOU SEE A
PATTERN HERE IN ANN ARBOR HILLS
WAS DESIGNED BY LOCAL ARCHITECT
GEORGE BRIGHAM AND BUILT IN
NINETEEN FIFTY TWO IT WAS
DESCRIBED IN AN ANN ARBOR
NEWS ARTICLE AS QUOTE THE
PINNACLE OF LIVABILITY AND
BEAUTY UNQUOTE.
IT WAS BUILT FOR DR. ALBERT S.
FURSTENBURG, A PHYSICIAN WHO
SERVED AS DEAN OF THE U.S.
MEDICAL SCHOOL FOR TWENTY FIVE
YEARS AND DEVELOPED IT INTO ONE
OF THE FOREMOST CENTERS FOR
MEDICAL RESEARCH IN THE UNITED
STATES.
FIRST IN BIRD PARK IS NAMED
AFTER HIM.
IT HAS BEEN OWNED BY ADAM
METZKER AND ADAM MAP SINCE 2004
FOUR ANIMALS NO MAP NO METZKER
OK AND THEN NEXT HOUSE IS
PRETTY MUCH NEXT DOOR IT IS
THAT TWENTY TO TWENTY EIGHT
BELMONT ROAD AND ITS OWNER IS
MERRYLAND LINDENOW ANOTHER
CENTURY MODERN HOUSE.
THIS STRUCTURE IS ONE OF ONLY
THREE RESIDENCES IN ANN ARBOR
DESIGNED BY ALDEN DOWN TO
DESIGN THIS BUILDING LOVE IT OR
HATE IT FAMOUS FOR HIS HOME AND
STUDIO MIDLAND AND FOR MANY
PUBLIC BUILDINGS IN ANN ARBOR
INCLUDING CITY HALL ON THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY, THE
HOUSE WAS BUILT FOR DR. AND
MRS. SIDNEY HOOBLER IN NINETEEN
FORTY NINE.
HOOBLER WAS A RENOWNED
CARDIOLOGIST WHO FOUNDED ONE
OF THE COUNTRY'S FIRST
HYPERTENSION CLINICS AT THE U
OF M.
HE SERVED AT THE UM HOSPITAL
FROM NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN TO
SEVENTY FOUR AND MADE THE
HYPERTENSION CLINIC AND
INTERNATIONALLY RENOWNED
RESEARCH CENTER ON HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE.
HIS HOME HAS BEEN LOVINGLY
MAINTAINED BY MARTIN AND
MARILYN LINDEN, OUR WHOSE
FAMILY HAS OWNED IT SINCE AT
LEAST NINETEEN NINETY TWO.
MARTIN LINDAUER WAS A PROFESSOR
OF SURGERY AT U OF M FOR OVER
40 YEARS AND SPECIALIZED IN
VASCULAR DISEASE THERE LINDENOW
IN THE HOUSE NO ANOTHER NO SHOW
ON THE NEXT PRESERVATION AWARD
IS FOR FORTY SEVENTY FIVE E
FOUR AND RIVER DRIVE THE HONOR
IS MARRIED LARSON AND OUTLAY ON
THE BANKS OF THE HUDSON RIVER
THIS NINETEEN FIFTY THREE MID
CENTURY MODERN HOUSE WAS
DESIGNED BY AND PROFESSOR
OF ARCHITECTURE THEODORE LAWSON
AN INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED
PRACTITIONER OF MODERN DESIGN.
THE LARSEN FAMILY STILL LIVES
HERE PANTS BOTH THE INSIDE AND
OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE AS WAS
ORIGINALLY DESIGNED AS A METAL
FRAMING SYSTEM WITH A UNIQUE
WELCOMENESS CONNECTION.
IT CHANNELS USED TO SUPPORT
HEATING, VENTILATION AND AIR
CONDITIONING SYSTEMS FOR
NEWS TODAY I KNOW SHE SHE
DIDN'T MAKE IT AND I KNOW THAT
ONE.
THE NEXT PRESERVATION AWARD
GOES TO PAYMENT FOR SEVEN
MONTHS SEVEN MUSTANG.
THIS LOVELY BATTLE STYLE HOUSE
HAS DRASTICALLY LOOKED OVER AND
STREET SINCE 1996.
IT WAS PARTITAS HARTZELL, A
MEMBER OF A PROMINENT GERMAN
FAMILY BUT UNSTYLED CENTRAL
PLANNING SYSTEMS AND ANAMBRA IN
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND IS STILL
IN BUSINESS TODAY.
AS FOR PLUMBING, HADSELL WAS
ALSO ACTIVE IN CIVIC AFFAIRS
SERVING AS AN ALDERMAN
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD
OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRUSTEE
OF PERSONAL CEMETERY.
TODAY'S HONOR HAS KEPT IT IN
FANTASTIC CONDITION SINCE
NINETEEN EIGHTY TWO FOR FORTY
YEARS GARY
HAS SAID MORE ABOUT
YOU THAN YOU SEE.
CONGRATULATIONS YOU SEE YOU
LATER.
OK NEXT UP IS ONE ON SEVEN WEST
LIBERTY AND I WILL SUNBERG AND
IT DOESN'T TAKE A LONG TIME TO
1912 IS SEVEN ARTS AND CRAFTS
DECO HOUSE FOR OVER FORTY SEVEN
YEARS THE HOUSE WAS BUILT BY
LOCAL CONTRACTOR SAM STEIDL.
HE WAS THE SENIOR PARTNER IN
THE FORM OF SKATELAND ALBERT
WHICH WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR
ERECTING MANY OF THE VAN DAMS
IN ANN ARBOR.
ACCORDING TO A 1996 HISTORY
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY, THE STATE
ALSO LIVED IN THE HOUSE UNTIL
HIS WIFE'S DEATH IN NINETEEN
SIXTY TWO IS RUSTENBERG
PURCHASED THE HOUSE A DECADE
LATER AND THAT'S ON THE WEST
SIDE DISTRICT.
OH AND SINCE THE PREVIOUS HOUSE
I FORGOT TO MENTION THAT I ALSO
FORGOT TO MENTION HAVE TO BE IN
THIS HISTORIC DISTRICT TO GET
ONE OF THESE BOARDS.
SO IS THIS WITH SOME NEW OK,
OUR NEXT PRESERVATION WOULD TO
CONGREGATION BED AT SEVEN FIFTY
IN ST. THIS FRIENDSHIP STYLE
HAS BEEN THE HOME OF A BAD
CONGREGATION THAT'S SINCE
NINETEEN SEVENTY FIVE.
IT WAS ORIGINALLY BUILT IN
NINETEEN TWENTY TEN FOR THE
ZYZZ DENTAL FRATERNITY
ACCORDING TO THE MICHIGAN
ALUMNUS AND IN NINETEEN FORTY
FOUR IT WAS PURCHASED BY THE TO
FLY JEWISH FRATERNITY NOTED
THAT ITS WINDOWS ST. CORNERS
ST. BERNARD POINTS AND TALPIOT
PLANTED PANICLE ROOF OF COPPER.
THE HOUSE ON THE HILL STILL
STANDS LAURISKI OVER HILL ST.
PAUL STREET AND THIRTIES.
THE HOUSE WAS OCCUPIED BY THE
US ARMY FOR TROOP TRAINING
AS
MOST OF THE FRATERNITY MEMBERS
WERE SERVING IN THE WAR.
THE RADIATOR'S IN THE PIPES
WERE REMOVED FROM THE BARN AND
DONATED TO THE WAR EFFORT SCRAP
METAL DRIVE THE HOUSE WAS
REFURBISHED IN 1939 AND
RECEIVED A MAJOR RENOVATION IN
NINETEEN SIXTY FOUR.
I KNOW RABBI GOLDSTEIN IS HERE
YOUR TURN COMING UP
.
CONGRATULATIONS.
THANK YOU.
>> OK NOW WE GO A LITTLE
FURTHER DOWN HILL STREET TO ONE
THOUSAND HILL STREET.
THIS IS THE WHAT IS IT EPSILON
PHI CHAPTER FRATERNITY.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS
HAS MAINTAINED THIS CLASSIC TO
THE REVIVAL BUILDING SINCE IT
WAS THEN IN NINETEEN TWENTY
FIVE IT WAS DESIGNED BY
ALBERTAN AS A MEMBER OF THE
FRATERNITY AND CONVINCE TO MOVE
FROM AN OLD HOUSE AND THE
AVENUE TO THE SITE WHERE YOUR
HOUSE WAS DEMOLISHED.
FEATURES HAVE TREMBLING AND THE
SECOND STORY AND IT'S BROKEN
ASHURST THE DOOR AND WINDOWS
THE HOUSE HAS A BEAUTIFUL
FLAMEPROOF AND PIPESTONE BY THE
FAMOUS DETROIT SCULPTURE
SCULPTOR PERABO GRUCHY HAS
ANYONE HERE FROM FRATERNITY NO
SOMEBODY NO SHOWS OK SPRING
PRESERVATION AWARDS THE NEXT
ONE GOES TO THIRTEEN ELEVEN
STREET AND HENRY AND BALLOON
THAT'S GRANDMA'S HOUSE
GRANDMA'S HOUSE RENTS THIS
RENTAL WHICH WAS BUILT FOR THE
LUMBER YARD SEE A SLAYER IN
1894 THE CANDY HAD BEEN
WONDERFULLY PRESERVED INCLUDING
THE SAD PART ALSO NOT OF THE
VARIETY OF FANCY TRENDS AND THE
MANY GABLES CHARACTERISTIC
OF THE QUEEN ANNE STYLE
GRANDMA'S HOUSE HAS ON THE
HOUSE SINCE NINETEEN EIGHTY
SEVEN ANYBODY WHO FORMERLY
CAME.
THE NEXT AWARD GOES TO SEVEN OH
THREE SAID FIRST FLAT AND
LEIPHEIMER OF CAMPUS MANAGEMENT
.
MY CLASSES KEEP UP THIS ONE
HOUSE WAS BUILT FOR THE FAMOUS
SO DID PROFESSOR CHARLES
HORTON.
COOLEY HAD REMAINED IN THE
HOUSE UNTIL HIS DEATH IN
NINETEEN TWENTY NINE WHO HELPED
ORGANIZE AMERICAN SOCIOLOGICAL
ASSOCIATION IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
FIVE AND BECAME PRESIDENT IN
1918.
IT HAS BEEN OWNED BY LEIPHEIMER
AND MY AND MAINTAINED BY CAMPUS
MANAGEMENT FOR MANY YEARS.
THERE IS SOME EVIDENCE THAT THE
HOUSE MAY HAVE BEEN DESIGNED BY
THE FAMOUS ARCHITECT LIVING
CAPABLE OF PANTOMIMED
ARCHITECTS WHO DESIGNED THE
EUROPEAN UNION IS A HUGE HOUSE
CONTAINING FIVE APARTMENTS WITH
AN ECLECTIC ARCHITECTURE THAT
INCLUDES EXPOSED AFTER CHARLES
BACTRIM SINGLE AND MICROCAPS
HIDING AND THEN THE LATTER
FRONT PORCH IS NESTLED IN THE
TWEED AREA NEXT TO FIRST
APARTMENTS.
>> ANYBODY OK AND THEN WE HAVE
A DUPLEX AT SIX THREE WALLS AND
ELEVEN THIRTY NINE MARTIN PLACE
THIS AT NORTHEAST CORNER
OF MARTIN AND MILES BROKEN THE
TUDOR RANDALLSTOWN IN NINETEEN
TWENTY ONE FOR HILDES THE WALL
STREET HOUSE AND JAMES KAPOLEI
PLACE HOUSE WAS A LOCAL REALTOR
WHO HAD BUILT THE TWIN
APARTMENT BUILDINGS AT TWO
HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWENTY TWO
IN ST. THERE WERE IMAGES
OF EACH OTHER WITH DUGA FROM
LEFT UP THE WALL STREET HOUSE
UNTIL THE NINETEEN FORTIES
TIMESCAPE WAS A PROFESSOR
OF POLITICAL SCIENCE AT YOUR
HOME AND MY THIS DEPARTMENT
PACK MOVED AWAY BY NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN AND DUNCANSON HAD
USED CARDBOARD MOST ARCHITECT
FOR THE BUILDINGS ON STATE
STREET SO IT'S POSSIBLE THAT HE
DESIGNED THESE TUDOR TUDOR
DUPLEX AS WELL.
THEY DISPLAYED THE
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE STYLE
BRICK HALF TIMBERING AND
SCHLEIFSTEIN TRIM ON THE DOORS
AND FINESTRA STEEL CASEMENT
WINDOWS OPENED BEAUTIFULLY
MAINTAINED BY PATRICIA O'DOWD
SINCE NINETEEN NINETY SEVEN AND
SINCE TWO THOUSAND EITHER
OF YOU HERE HMM.
OK THAT'S WHY WE HAVE MORE
TOWARDS WHICH YOU'RE GIVEN TO
EXCEPTIONAL PROJECTS AND UNIQUE
PRESERVATION EFFORTS.
THE FIRST AWARD GOES TO COLONUS
FOR FIFTEEN SEVENTEEN FIVE
SEVENTEEN AND STREET FOR HIS
FULL TIME PORCH RESTORATION
JUNGLELAND THAT'S THIS SWARD
FOR THE METICULOUS
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE FIELD'S
FRONT PORCH AND HOUSE IN THE
STREET HISTORIC BLACK WHICH IS
PART OF THE OLD FOURTH WARD AND
IS CLEAN AND HAS SLASH COLONIAL
REVIVAL STYLE HOUSE WAS BUILT
IN NINETEEN SIX FOUR DR. JOHN
MORTON TO BE CALLED THE
SHOWPLACE VANDERBERG UNQUOTE
WITH ITS PROJECTING BAY WINDOWS
SASHAYED MILLIONS AND BEING
WINDOW SHAPES AND SIZES AND
EIGHTEEN IT WAS BEING USED AS
AN EPISCOPAL DORMITORY LATER IT
WAS A COLOR FOR GIRLS FROM
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN TO SEVENTY
IT WAS THE HOME AND OFFICE
OF ANOTHER DOCTOR RALPH.
MENTIONED THAT MARTIN TOLD OUR
HOUSE AND HAD BEEN DESTROYED BY
FIRE.
THE HOUSE HAS BEEN ON A WILSON
FAMILY SINCE NINETEEN NINETIES.
THE FRONT PORCH WAS SINKING AND
FAILING AND LUMINOUS
DISASSEMBLED AND REASSEMBLED
THE PORCH AND NEW FRITTERS
WHILE MAINTAINING ITS UNIQUE
BIRD PROFILE AND SAD ENTRY TO
HERE.
YES BLACK
.
I'M PROUD OF MYSELF FOR SOME
OF THE NO SHOWS HERE.
OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
NOW I CAN FINALLY PUT A FACE TO
THAT NAME.
I HOPE I DIDN'T MANGLE YOUR
NAME TOO MUCH SPECIAL MERIT
AWARD GOES TO FIFTEEN FIFTY
WASHTENAW AVENUE ZETI THIRTY
FOR THE RESTORATION OF THE
NINETEEN TWENTY ONE WORD
COLUMNS THAT LINE THE EAST EDGE
OF THEIR PROPERTY AROUND
WASHINGTON AVENUE THE COLUMNS
OR DISASSEMBLED AND MOVED
FURTHER FROM THE ROW OVER TO
AVOID CLASHES WITH VEHICLES AND
PEOPLE PAINTING THE RACK THE
INITIALS OF THE ORIGINAL
FRATERNITY THAT BUILDING KAPPA
ARE CARVED INTO THESE POWERS
AND IF YOU GO AROUND THE CORNER
UNHEALTH PAID FOR ANOTHER SET
OF PILLARS WITH NORTON'S
INITIALS CARVED IN IT BECAUSE
THEY SHOWED THE INFLUENCE HOUSE
IS WHERE THE FATHER IS TODAY
AND NOT MISS PROFESSOR ANYBODY
HERE FROM THE SORORITY
.
THANK YOU.
GOOD WORK.
OK NOW WE HAVE REHABILITATION
AWARD.
WE ONLY HAD ONE THIS YEAR
THAT'S VERY UNUSUAL.
UH THIS GOES TO JASON AND
CONSTANCE KREMP FOUR FIVE
TWENTY SIX OF ASHLEY ST. JASON
AND CONSTANCE HARPER RECEIVING
THIS AWARD FOR THE BEAUTIFUL
RESTORATION OF THEIR QUEEN AND
HOME.
IT WAS BUILT IN 1894 FOR
CATHERINE BOWMAN, A WIDOW WHO
LIVED HERE WITH HER THREE
DAUGHTERS FOR ALMOST FORTY
YEARS SINCE THAT HAS BEEN
WORKING IN THIS BUILDING SINCE
THE 1980S AND WE ARE PLEASED TO
RECOGNIZE THIS WORK IN
RESTORING AND REPLICATING THE
FEATURES OF THIS WONDERFUL
QUEEN IN A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT
OF WORK INTO THE RESTORING THE
PORCH TO ITS ORIGINAL
APPEARANCE.
SO ITS OTHER PROJECTS ON ASHLEY
STREET HAVE GREATLY BEAUTIFIED
THE BLACK.
THIS IS THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
.
OH THANK YOU MY SHIRT SAME
GLORY NO CARS
AND THE LAST WORD
IS A CENTENNIAL.
I VAN BEETHOVEN AT THREE TWENTY
SIX ON STATE HALLSTEIN 1915 IN
STORE FRONT THAT IS SO
PROMINENT STATE STREET HAS BEEN
THERE FROM THE BEGINNING PETER
VAN BEETHOVEN THE FOUNDER
OF THE STORE IN NINETEEN TWENTY
THREE FROM THE NEW STORE WHICH
HE OPENED WITH FRANCE IN
NINETEEN TWENTY ONE THAT'S HIS
NAME WOULD SUGGEST HE WAS A
CHILD OF IMMIGRANTS AND GREW UP
IN GRAND RAPIDS.
PETER CAME TO YOU WHEN THE
SPANISH BASEBALL TEAM AND THE
LOOKBACK HE OPENED HIS STORE
WITH THE INTENT TO TO PROVIDE
SIMPLE BUT ELEGANT CLOTHING FOR
DISCERNING CUSTOMERS.
THE STORE MAINTAINS ITS FOCUS
TODAY.
THAT'S THE THIRD
FOURTH
GENERATIONS OF THE VAN BUREN
FAMILY STILL IN THE BUSINESS.
THIS IS ON THE SPEED STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT BUILDINGS IN
THE HOUSE NOVEMBER.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WELCOME.
THANKS AGAIN FOR GIVING US THE
TIME FOR
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVED AND PUBLIC
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMON RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS BOTH IN PERSON
AND ONLINE.
WE'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
.
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE HAVE IN
EXCESS OF FIFTEEN FOLKS SIGNED
UP FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
THE PROCESS FOR THAT IS THAT WE
RUN THROUGH PUBLIC COMMENT AS
MANY AS WE CAN EITHER THE FIRST
FIFTEEN OR FORTY FIVE MINUTES.
THAT IS TO SAY WE WILL
CERTAINLY RUN THROUGH THE FIRST
FIFTEEN BUT IF THOSE ARE DONE
WITHIN FORTY FIVE MINUTES WE
WILL EXTEND UNTIL WE HIT THE 45
MINUTE MARK AT THE FORTY FIVE
MINUTE MARK.
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING WILL BE
CONCLUDED.
FOLKS WHO ARE SIGNED UP ON OUR
LIST IN ADVANCE WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS COUNSEL
AT THE END OF THE MEETING IN
ORDER IF THEY ARE PRESENT.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ABIGAIL MACGINNIS
.
ABIGAIL MCGUINNESS.
YES AND HARRY YES WE CAN GREAT
AND I WILL GET STARTED AND MY
NAME IS AVERAGENESS AND I AM A
PEDIATRIC ICU DOCTOR AT MY
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL AND DOCTORS
ARE SEEN AS EXPERTS IN SAFETY
AND AS A PEDIATRIC ICU
PHYSICIAN I AM DEEPLY INVESTED
IN THE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING
OF OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
I'M CALLING IN SUPPORT OF THE
COALITION FOR OUR SAFETY ALSO
KNOWN AS CROSS.
I EXCITED THAT THE RESOLUTION
AND SUPPORT OF OUR VETERANS FOR
AN ARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM
AFFIRMS THE IMPORTANCE OF AN
INDEPENDENT NON POLICE PROGRAM
THAT IS ACCESSIBLE FROM A NINE
NINE ON ONE NUMBER AND IS IN
LINE WITH CROISSANCE VALUES.
ALSO READ COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
REPORT BY PUBLIC SECTOR
CONSULTANTS AND I AM HERE TO
URGE THE CITY COUNCIL TO
PRIORITIZE THE FOLLOWING THREE
KEY FINDINGS IN THE REPORT.
FIRSTLY, THE PUBLIC SAFETY
RESPONSE FROM EXISTING BUDGET
RESOURCES PERSONNEL.
I BELIEVE THIS SUMMER ALL OF A
SUDDEN SHOULD BE TAKEN OUT
OF THE EXISTING POLICING
BUDGET.
THE CITY'S COMMITMENT RPA FUNDS
TO AN UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM
IS A GREAT START AND I'M GOING
TO SUSTAIN FUNDING FROM THE
EXISTING POLICE BUDGET IS A
GREAT WAY TO ENSURE THIS
PROGRAM REMAINS ROBUST CARE
BASED AND ACCESSIBLE TO ALL IN
EVERY RESIDENTS.
TO ME THIS WOULD DEMONSTRATE
THE CITY'S COMMITMENT TO
ADDRESSING THE ROOT CAUSES
OF CONFLICT AND CRISIS.
SECONDLY, THE RFP SHOULD
REQUIRE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
SEPARATE NUMBER FOR AN ARMED
RESPONSE.
A DEDICATED MEMBER FOR AN ARMED
RESPONSE CAN HELP STREAMLINE
SERVICES, ENSURE APPROPRIATE
RESPONSE TO EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS AND ALLEVIATE THE
BURDEN ON THE 911 SYSTEM.
>> AND FINALLY, I SHOULD INSIST
ON THE EXCLUSION OF POLICE FROM
THE ARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM.
THE PROGRAM SHOULD FOCUS ON
PROFESSIONALS FOR NONVIOLENCE
SITUATIONS TO REDUCE THE RISK
OF UNNECESSARY USE OF FORCE AS
WELL AS TO ENHANCE COMMUNITY
TRUST AND TO ENCOURAGE MORE
EFFECTIVE COMMUNITY BASED
SOLUTIONS FOR ENSURING AN ARMED
POLICE RESPONSE TO AN RESPONSE
PROGRAM CAN BE SAFELY UTILIZED
BY MORE PEOPLE SIMULTANEOUSLY
REDUCING THE NUMBER OF CALLS
POLICE ARE RESPONDING TO
REDUCING THE NUMBER OF POLICE
RESPONSES WILL ALLEVIATE THE
BURDEN ON OUR POLICE FREEING UP
EXISTING POLICE FUNDS FOR
OTHERS SAFETY PROVIDING
PROGRAMS IN OUR CITY.
I REQUEST THAT THE CITY COUNCIL
TAKE THESE FINDINGS INTO
CONSIDERATION WHEN ASSESSING
THE RFP FOR ARMED RESPONSE AND
MOVING FORWARD WITH ITS RELEASE
.
I HAVE TO EXTEND MY SUPPORT FOR
C TO THE DRIVING QUALITY
AUDIENCE.
AS A PEDIATRIC DOCTOR I
STRONGLY SUPPORT EFFORTS TO
REDUCE AND OPTIONS BETWEEN
POLICE AND RESIDENTS ESPECIALLY
YOUNG RESIDENTS AND ESPECIALLY
SCIENCE IS PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS
THAT DISPROPORTIONATELY HARMS
ARE BLACK, BROWN AND CREATING
THIS RESOLUTION IS A FANTASTIC
STEP TOWARDS CREATING SAFER
STREETS AND SAFER TIME FOR OUR
RESIDENTS, NEIGHBORS AND OTHERS
.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
DEDICATION TO IMPROVING PUBLIC
SAFETY AND AN EVER THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JACINTA
TOWNSEND GUIDES
DO I LOOK LIKE
A REPEAT OFFENDER?
>> I WAS HOPING FOR A YES BUT I
GUESS NOT.
IN FACT I AM A CRANKY OLD WOMAN
WHO DRIVES CRANKY OLD MOTHERS
ONE OF WHICH IS CRANKY ENOUGH
AND OLD ENOUGH TO HAVE A
HEADLIGHT IS CONSISTENTLY OUT.
>> I WENT TO REPAIR IT.
IT WENT OUT AGAIN.
>> I GAVE UP AT SOME POINT IT'S
BEEN LIKE THAT FOR A WHILE.
BUT YOU KNOW WHAT?
I NEVER GET STOPPED.
WHY?
FIRST OF ALL I'M A CRANKY OLD
LADY.
SECOND OF ALL THEY ARE KIND
OF THE LATEST MODEL BOTHER'S
THIRD OF ALL THERE IS A HARVARD
ALUMNI PLAYED ON EACH OF THEM
BUT THAT VERY INTENTIONALLY PUT
THERE BECAUSE MY THERE IS NOT
FULL I AM BLACK.
I RARELY GET STABBED BUT LET'S
TALK ABOUT THE NUMBERS BECAUSE
OTHER PEOPLE AREN'T SO LUCKY,
SAID THE MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
ITSELF THAT STUDIED ITSELF IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE THERE'S DATA
AND THAT DATA REVEALED THE
TRAFFIC STOPS CONDUCTED IN
DAYLIGHT FOR EIGHTEEN PERCENT
18 PERCENT MORE LIKELY TO BE TO
LATINOS AND ELEVEN PERCENT MORE
LIKELY TO HAVE BLACKS AS THE
SUBJECT OF THIS.
THAT'S A STUDY IN A NEIGHBORING
STATE THAN THAT ONE THIRD
OF THE STOPS TRAFFIC FOR MINOR
TRAFFIC OFFENSES WERE STOPS
OF BLACK AND LATINO DRIVERS.
THEY STOPPED TWICE AS OFTEN
WHITE DRIVERS AND FIVE PERCENT
ARE OVERREPRESENTED IN SEARCHES
IN BEING HANDCUFFED AND THEN
BEING DETAINED.
BUT THE INCIDENTS OF CONTROL
UNDER EVIDENCE WAS LOWER THAN
THAT OF WHITE DRIVERS.
SO LOS ANGELES, PHILADELPHIA,
SEATTLE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY,
NORTH CAROLINA AND BERKELEY,
CALIFORNIA HAVE ALL IMPLEMENTED
POLICIES TO LIMIT OR ELIMINATE
TRAFFIC STOPS FOR MINOR
VIOLATIONS AND I ENCOURAGE THE
CITY BANABA TO JOIN THEM.
WE CAN GO DOWN THE LIST OUR
NUMBERS AND IN OUR NAMES.
TANIKAZE WAS PULLED OVER AND
BEATEN TO DEATH FOR RECKLESS
DRIVING.
DANTE WRIGHT WAS PULLED OVER
FOR AN EXPIRED REGISTRATION TAG
.
RICHARD BROOKS WAS SHOT TO
DEATH FOR FALLING ASLEEP IN HIS
CAR TO GET ON THE BUS THAT 17
TIMES WHILE DRIVING SCENES ARE
BEING KILLED BECAUSE AN OFFICER
SAID SHE FAILED TO SIGNAL A
TURN AND OF COURSE THE WINDOW
CASTILLE WHO BEFORE POLICE
FINALLY KILLED HIM IN TWENTY
SIXTEEN HAD BEEN PULLED OVER A
STAGGERING FORTY NINE TIMES FOR
MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS TWENTY
TWENTY, SIXTEEN AND TWENTY ONE
POLICE KILLED OVER FOUR HUNDRED
DRIVERS OR PASSENGERS WHO WERE
UNARMED AND WERE NOT BEING
PURSUED FOR VIOLENT CRIME AND
AN OUTSIDE PROPORTION OF THEM
AS WE KNOW WERE BLACK AND
LATINO AND THAT'S AN AVERAGE
OF ONE PERSON PER WEEK.
>> RIGHT.
SO A BUSTED TAILLIGHT IMPACTING
PUBLIC SAFETY.
NEITHER IS LOUD MUSIC OR AN
EXPIRED TAG OR WINDOW TENT AND
THE OVERALL CRIME RATE FOR
THESE MUNICIPALITIES WHO
IMPLEMENTED POLICIES IS THAT
OK?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS A RISING HI
MY NAME IS AT LEAST EXCITON.
I LIVE ON KENSINGTON DRIVE IN
ANN ARBOR RIGHT NOW.
I'M GOING TO CALL ALL OF YOU
AND ASK YOU RIGHT AT THIS
MOMENT TO BREATHE WITH ME.
EVERYONE INHALE THE BIGGEST
BREATH YOU'VE EVER TAKEN TODAY
AND EXHALE IT OUT.
>> I WANT YOU TO DO THAT AGAIN
WITH ME AND ACTUALLY BREATHE
MAKE NOISE ON YOUR SIDE.
BREATHE IT OUT ONE MORE INHALE
PLEASE.
AND
AND AS YOU SIT IN THE
SILENCE, I WANT YOU TO THINK
ABOUT YOUR BREATH THAT YOU'RE
ABLE TO BREATHE RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE OF WHERE YOU LIVE AND
WHO WE ARE THAT DRIVING EQUITY
ORDINANCE IS SO IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT'S ABOUT PROTECTING
OUR BROWN AND BLACK BROTHERS
AND SISTERS, OUR FAMILY WHO
CANNOT BE HERE TODAY TO SPEAK
WHOSE BREATH WAS TAKEN.
>> AND WHILE THIS IS A SMALL
ORDINANCE THAT SHOULD BE PASSED
AND MUST BE PASSED, IT'S A
SMALL FORWARD MOVEMENT IN A
LARGER MOVEMENT OF PROGRESS AND
I AM PRAYER AND ARBOR WITH ITS
BEAUTIFUL RICHES AND TREES THAT
COME DOWN IN CITY HALL TO
REALLY SIT AND THINK ABOUT
THEIR RESOURCES, THEIR TIME,
THEIR ENERGY
AND THINK ABOUT
MAYBE OUR NEIGHBORS THOUGH WHO
ARE DEFINED AS LIVING IN A FOOD
DESERT BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH ACCESS TO RESOURCES.
BUT HOW CAN WE EMBODY HUMAN
MYCELIUM AND REDIRECT RESOURCES
AND CONTINUE THE WORK THAT
NEEDS TO BE FOR PROGRESS SAKE
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW WE ARE MOVING
AT THE SPEED OF TRANSPORT AND
THERE'S A LOT DISTRUST IN THIS
ROOM AND I ASK ALL OF YOU TO
TAKE ANOTHER DEEP BREATH WITH
ME NOW INSIDE OUT WHEN THINGS
GET TOO TENSE DISCUSSIONS GET
TOO HIGH.
REMEMBER YOU HAVE THE POWER TO
BREATHE.
>> YOU HAVE THE POWER OF YOUR
BREATH AND INTENSE MOMENTS
PLEASE BREATHE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRIAN
GEHRINGER
MAYOR.
>> HE'S SUPPOSED TO BE IN
PERSON.
BRIAN CARRINGER.
OH, I DO SEE HIM ON THE ZOOME
CALL NOW.
THANK YOU, BRIAN VIA PHONE
NUMBER SEVEN NINE FIVE FOUR
STAR SIX ON MUTE YOUR PHONE.
YES, WE CAN.
HELLO.
OK, WONDERFUL.
OK HI EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS FRANK YANGER.
>> I'M HERE TO SPEAK DEEPLY IN
FAVOR PROPOSAL TO STOP USING
TRAFFIC VIOLATION CITY THE
PRETEXT OF DECADES OF RESEARCH
HAVE SHOWN THAT TRAFFIC STOPS
HAVE AN EXTREMELY
DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACT ON
BLACK AND BROWN AND POOR
DRIVERS WHILE WHITE PEOPLE
DRIVING FANCY CARS ARE
SUBJECTED TO AN ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT REALITY IN SOME CASES
WE'VE READ ABOUT FERGUSON,
MISSOURI.
THIS LEADS TO AN OUTRIGHT CYCLE
OF TERROR A YOUNG OFTEN POOR
BLACK MAN WE MUST SOBERLY
RECOGNIZE THAT WHILE ANN ARBOR
IS NOT FERGUSON, ANN ARBOR IS
NOT NOT FERGUSON.
IN FACT, THE RECENT REPORT FROM
THE CITIZENS FOR RACIAL
EQUALITY IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
REPORT IS DAMNING AND I QUOTE
THE BREADTH OF THE RACIAL
DISPARITIES CREW DOCUMENTED AND
THE IMPACT IN TERMS
OF PUNISHMENT ON PEOPLE
OF COLOR ARE SO STARK THAT
COULD PRESENTED THIS REPORT TO
OUR COMMUNITY WITH A CALL FOR
IMMEDIATE ACTION BY THOSE
INSTITUTIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR
FUNDING, ADMINISTERING AND
OVERSEEING CRIMINAL LEGAL
SYSTEM IN BALTIMORE COUNTY.
THE REPORT FOUND THAT IN THE
COUNTY PROSECUTORS CHARGE
FEALTY TO MADISON MORE THAN
WHITE PEOPLE IN THEIR LEGAL
WORK IN THE COURT SYSTEM.
THE REALITY IS THAT THE MORE
CONTACT THAT BLACK PEOPLE HAVE
WITH POLICE, THE MORE THIS
BREAKING CLARITY AND PUNISHMENT
WILL WIDEN.
AND ALTHOUGH THAT SOUNDS BAD,
THESE ARE IN FACT LIFE RUINING
SENTENCES AND THE RAMIFICATIONS
OF THESE DECISIONS ARE
EXTREMELY SERIOUS.
NOTHING WOULD BE A RACIST AND
EVIL THING TO DO IN THIS CASE
BEING HALCRO WILL BEGIN TO PEEL
BACK THE LAYERS OF POLICING IN
A COUNTY FINDING I HOPE MORE
AND MORE INSTANCES IN WHICH THE
HARSH PUNISHMENT
OF IMPRISONMENT AS WELL FOR
MINOR RETRIBUTIONS ARE
INCREASINGLY UNNECESSARY.
WHILE WE'RE AT IT, I WOULD LOVE
TO SEE IN OUR VIEW THE
SIGNIFICANT POWER IN THE COUNTY
TO ENCOURAGE ALL MUNICIPALITIES
THAT PROTECT THAT AND I DEEPLY
ENCOURAGE YOU TO OPEN THE LINE
OF COMMUNICATION WITH THE
COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE
WHILE PROSECUTORS WEBSITE
STATES THAT THEY WILL QUOTE NO
LONGER PROSECUTE CONTRABAND
CASES THAT ARISE PROTECT THE
TYPICALLY THE PROSECUTOR'S WILL
NO LONGER PROSECUTE POSSESSION
OF CONTRABAND CRIMES THAT ARISE
FROM THE FACT SCENARIO
INDICATING THAT A POLICE
OFFICER STOPS A PERSON FOR A
MINOR INFRACTION BUT WHERE
THEIR REAL GOAL WAS TO UNCOVER
EVIDENCE THAT A CIVILIAN HAS
DRUGS OR OTHER CONTRABAND.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE CURRENT
REALITIES OF THE THABIT STILL
PROSECUTE AND PROTECT THAT IT'S
THEIR OPINION THAT THIS POLICY
STATED ON THEIR OWN WEBSITE
ONLY APPLIES IN SCENARIOS IN
WHICH THE TOP INDIVIDUAL GOES
ON SPECIFICALLY TO GIVE CONSENT
TO THE STOPPING OFFICER TO
SEARCH A VEHICLE.
FURTHER SPECIFICATION OF THAT
POLICY RENDERS IT UTTERLY
UNAWARE OF THE SCOPE OF THE
PROBLEM.
WE ARE IN AGREEMENT FROM THE
PROSECUTOR TO EXECUTE THE
POLICY AS STATED BY PROSECUTING
CONTRABAND FROM PRETEXTED
IMMEDIATELY AND WHILE I'M HERE
I QUICKLY LIKE TO MENTION THE
IRONY IN OUR CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER I WAS STARTING TO WORRY
ABOUT THE CITY'S BIGGEST
LANDLORD AND CLIENT, THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BEING
UNDER INVESTIGATION BY THE
PREDATOR FOR TAKING THOUSANDS
OF GRADE.
YOU ALL MIGHT WANT TO CHECK ON
THAT AND ENCOURAGE THEM TO MAKE
THEM CONFESSION'S TO DO IT.
>> THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LISA
JACKSON.
>> GOOD EVENING.
AND LISA JACKSON, THE FORMER
CHAIR OF AN INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION.
FOUR YEARS I ADVOCATED FOR
TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
IN POLICING IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M HERE TODAY IN SUPPORT
OF THE DRIVING EQUITY ORDINANCE
SPONSORED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CYNTHIA HARRIS AND OTHERS.
I'VE BEEN STOPPED FOR NOT
TAKING MY HANDICAP PLACARD DOWN
SOON ENOUGH AFTER LEAVING A
GROCERY STORE WHEN MY DAUGHTER
WAS IN A WHEELCHAIR.
I'VE HAD COLLEAGUES HAVE BEEN
STOPPED FOR HAVING A CHILD'S
GRADUATION HASSLE HANGING WITH
PRIDE FROM THEIR REARVIEW
MIRROR.
I DON'T BELIEVE THE POLICE OR
ANYONE FEEL THAT ANY EITHER
OF THESE WERE A THREAT TO
PUBLIC SAFETY.
I PERCEIVE THEM, HOWEVER, TO BE
A PRETEXT BY WHICH TO STOP AND
INTERROGATE PEOPLE WHO LOOK
LIKE ME WHEN I DISCUSS THESE
ISSUES WITH CHIEF PARKS AND
SPECIFICALLY THE CLAIM THAT
SOME PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
THE TINTED WINDOWS MAKE POLICE
LESS SAFE.
HE REMINDED ME THAT IN FLORIDA,
ARIZONA, NEVADA AND CALIFORNIA
TINTED WINDOWS ARE IN REGULAR
USE AND THEY HAVE NOT POSED A
THREAT TO POLICE.
MAYBE WE CAN DO AN EXCHANGE
PROGRAM AND SEND APD TO THESE
SUMMER CLIMES.
I SAW AMY HERE SO WE CAN DO
LIKE A TRADE OFF THING AFTER MY
ADVOCACY AND MY WORKING FOR
OVER 14 MONTHS AS YOU GUYS KNOW
TO GET ACCURATE TRAFFIC STOP
DATA FROM APD, SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN CRIMINAL JUSTICE
POLICY RESEARCH PROJECT CALLED
SMART HAS FINALIZED A REPORT
OF TRAFFIC STOPS AND ANYWHERE
FROM TWENTY SEVENTEEN TO TWENTY
NINETEEN DATA ON TWENTY TWENTY
WHICH IS THE FIRST PROPERTY ARE
BEING ANALYZED SEPARATELY.
I WORKED VERY HARD AS YOU KNOW
UPSTREAM ON THIS ISSUE BECAUSE
TRAFFIC MAPS ARE THE NUMBER ONE
WAY IN WHICH PEOPLE COME IN
CONTACT WITH THE POLICE JUST AS
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE FOUND
WHEN THEY HAD RESEARCHERS AT
MICHIGAN STATE ANALYZED THEIR
DATA THE SMART TEAM AT AND HAS
FOUND SIGNIFICANT DISPARITIES
IN THE WAY DRIVERS POLICED IN
ANN ARBOR AT EVERY SINGLE
DIMENSION EXAMINED NONWHITE
MOTORISTS ARE STOPPED AND
SEARCHED MORE FREQUENTLY AND
WHITE MOTORISTS.
MY LARGEST DISPARITY SHOULD
SURPRISE NO ONE.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN MALE DRIVERS
WERE STOPPED FOR EQUIPMENT
VIOLATIONS SUCH A HANGING
TASSELL OVER TWO HUNDRED
PERCENT MORE THAN WOULD BE
EXPECTED BY THE DATA AND THEY
WERE SEARCHED AFTER SUCH STOPS
BETWEEN THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
FIVE PERCENT AND FIVE HUNDRED
PERCENT MORE WOULD BE EXPECTED
BY THE DATA MIDDLE EASTERN MALE
DRIVERS ARE STOPPED EIGHTY ONE
PERCENT MORE OFTEN WHILE WHITE
FEMALE DRIVERS LESS THAN SHOULD
BE EXPECTED BY THE DATA BUT ARE
CERTAINLY OTHER STATISTICALLY
SIGNIFICANT FINDINGS OVERALL
THE ANTIQUATED PROCESSES BY
WHICH POLICE ARE ALLOWED TO
STOP MOTORISTS DO NOT KEEP US
SAFER ALLOWING, SUPPORTING AND
TURNING A BLIND EYE TO POLICE
WITH DISCRETION TO SEARCH
PEOPLE WHO LOOK LIKE ME.
LISA JACKSON WHILE LETTING
PEOPLE WHO LOOK LIKE LISA DISH
OFF WITH A WARNING OR MORE
SIGNIFICANTLY THAT STOPPING HER
IN THE FIRST PLACE DO NOT KEEP
US SAFER THE DRIVER NEEDS TO
LIVE UP TO ITS PROGRESSIVE
IMAGE AND JOIN PHILADELPHIA AND
LOS ANGELS AND OTHER CITIES WHO
HAVE RELIED ON DATA TO BRING
THEIR CITIES INTO THE TWENTY
FIRST CENTURY AND TO DECREASE
THE DISPARITIES WITH WHICH
PEOPLE COME INTO CONTACT WITH
POLICE BY WAY OF TRAFFIC STOPS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS STEPHANIE
CARTER FROM THE FORMER TO THE
CURRENT YEAR.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS I AM THE
CURRENT CHAIR OF THE
INDEPENDENT POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION.
A FEW YEARS AGO OUR SON WAS A
STUDENT AT PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL
.
HE PLAYED ON THE BASKETBALL
TEAM.
NANCI THE EVENING AS WAS OUR
CUSTOM HIS FATHER AND I WENT TO
A BASKETBALL GAME.
WE SAT THERE AND WATCHED HIM
PLAY AFTER A GAME WE ALL GOT UP
AND WE LAUGHED TOGETHER IN THE
PARKING LOT.
WE STOPPED AND SPOKE WITH SOME
OTHER PARENTS.
OUR SON GOT INTO HIS OLD
RAGGEDY CAR AND STARTED HOME
AHEAD OF US DOWN STADIUM WITHIN
TEN MINUTES OR SO WE ALSO
PROCEEDED DOWN STADIUM ON OUR
WAY HOME AND TRAFFIC LIGHTS
LIGHTS A POLICE CAR DRIVER
ATTENTION.
WE LOOKED OVER.
THIS WAS A COLD, DARK NIGHT AND
WE LOOKED FORWARD TO SEE OUR
SON'S CAR AND OUR SON WITH HIS
COAT UNZIPPED AND HANDS UP LIKE
STANDING ON THE SIDEWALK.
WE WALKED OVER TO PARK AND WALK
OVER AT THAT TIME BY THE WAY, I
WAS WORKING FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IN THE CITY ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE.
WELL I WAS TIME PROSECUTOR'S
OFFICE ONE OR THE OTHER IN ANY
CASE I SAID LET'S GO ON.
>> THEY SAID WHO ARE YOU?
I SAID WE'RE HIS PARENTS.
THEY SAID WE STOPPED HIM
BECAUSE HE FITS THE DESCRIPTION
OF SOMEONE WHO JUST RAN THE
STORE ON BROADWAY.
I SAID THAT'S A DESCRIPTION
YOUNG BLACK MAN WITH A MID-CAP
I TELL YOU IT WAS COLD UP.
WE SAID WE JUST LEFT HIM AT
HIGH SCHOOL, SAID HE LOOKED AT
ME AND SAID WELL WHEN WE PULLED
HIM OVER WE SMOKED MARIJUANA.
I'M NOT ONE TO BELIEVE MY
CHILDREN NEVER DID ANYTHING.
I WENT TO THE CAR.
I SAID YOU CAN SMELL MARIJUANA
.
THE OFFICER SAYS, OH, YOU'RE
GOING TO TELL ME MY DAD I SAID
HE WAS TRYING MARIJUANA CASES
WHEN YOU WERE IN HIGH SCHOOL.
I ALMOST SAID THAT BUT I BACK
THEN I SAID
WELL WE FOUND A
WEAPON IN THE CAR WEAPON IN THE
CAR.
MY SON BECAUSE OF THE AGE
OF THIS CAR HAD A RAP.
HE WAS AT THE COP IN THE
MORNING AND IT WOULD COME OFF
IF YOU JUST LET THE TAPE PUT
THE RAP ON THE GAS PEDAL AND GO
INSIDE TO FINISH GETTING READY
FOR SCHOOL ABSOLUTE EVERYTHING
WRONG?
NOT TRUE.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS.
IT DIDN'T MATTER TO THE POLICE
THAT NIGHT THAT MY SON OUR SON
WAS A NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY
TWO TIME MEDAL WINNER AND ALL
AROUND GOOD GUY THAT EVENING IT
WAS A BLACK MAN WITH A WHITE
CAP ON WISTAR SUPPORT THE
AUDIENCE FOR EQUITY IN DRIVING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SPEAKER.
HE'S VERY
THAT EVENING MR.
MAYOR.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS
AND GOOD EVENING AUDIENCE.
MY NAME IS DR. MARY HALL CHAM
AND I AM HERE TO ASK THE
SUPPORT OF THIS AUDIENCE.
I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE YOU
ADDITIONAL STATISTICS.
ADDITIONAL RESEARCH.
I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE YOU
I'M AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMAN
ADDITIONAL RESEARCH.
WHO HAS LIVED FOR SEVENTY TWO
I'M AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMAN
YEARS IN THIS BLACK BODY.
WHO HAS LIVED FOR SEVENTY TWO
I'M ASKING FOR RACIAL JUSTICE.
YEARS IN THIS BLACK BODY.
I'M ASKING FOR JESPERSEN.
I'M ASKING FOR RACIAL JUSTICE.
I ASK YOU ALL TO SUPPORT THIS
I'M ASKING FOR JESPERSEN.
FORTNIGHTS.
I ASK YOU ALL TO SUPPORT THIS
THANK YOU.
FORTNIGHTS.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETAL
SANDCASTLE
.
I WONDER IF I CAN START BEFORE
I GET HELP AND I HOPE I CAN USE
SOME
OF THE EMERGING PRESENT
MOMENT THEN IT'S A RADICAL CALL
TO BIT BECAUSE WE ARE NOT
NOUN'S ON A SHELF THE BOURBON
PROCESS EVER ON THE MOVE AND SO
MUCH IS ALREADY SWIRLING THIS
EVENING THAT I WANT TO HONOR
HOW I'M FEELING RIGHT NOW IN
FRONT OF SO MANY FRIENDS AND
MEMBERS I CAN SEE YES AND
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT ONE STILL AT
LAND FLANKED BY BUILDINGS THAT
WERE IN PART BUILT BY SLAVES I
WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT WERE
ASKED TO PROP UP AN ENTIRE HALF
AN HOUR DISCOURSE THAT IS
CELEBRATING PRIVATE PROPERTY IN
THE LAND OWNERS WHO OWN THEM
WERE ASKED TO PROP UP AND
CELEBRATE SUCH IS THAT I HAVE
PERSONALLY AS A PERSON IS
ENTITLED OVERCOMING THE
RUTHLESS GUILT AND SHAME I FELT
AT THE HANDS OF A REGION THAT
IS BUILT TO I KEEP PEOPLE AND
BLACK PEOPLE AT ODDS FROM EACH
OTHER PROMISING A COUPON YOU
CAN NEVER BUY AND I THINK THE
MARGINS THIS IS REALLY A
RADICAL CRY FOR THE MERCHANTS
TO COME TOGETHER IN UNITY AND I
KNOW I HAVE A LOT OF ENERGY AND
AGGRESSION POWER AND A LOT
OF THINGS AND I I DON'T WANT TO
APOLOGIZE FOR MY METHODS.
I DON'T APOLOGIZE TO MY
SECURITY FOR PRESENTING THINGS
.
MARGINS ARE DYING AT A PACE SET
BY THE PRIVILEGE RULING CLASSES
PEOPLE CLASSES ARE SETTING THE
PLACE ON EVERYTHING AND THIS IS
NOT THIS IS NOT AN INDICTMENT
ON PEOPLE'S HEARTS THE MINDS
OF THEIR INTENTIONS.
THIS IS AN INDICTMENT ON THE
PACE AT WHICH WHICH THINGS ARE
MOVING.
I WANT TO IGNORE IT SINCE THE
WHOLE THING TONIGHT WE'RE
LOOKING AT THIS I'M NOT SAYING
IT'S ONLY THAT LOOKING AT THIS
TONIGHT ARE THE THINGS THAT ARE
INCLUDED THAT ARE INCLUDED LIKE
LEAVING THIS STUFF OUT ON THE
CORNER TO EMBRACE THE SECURICOR
ECONOMY AND GOODS THINGS THE
THAT BELONG TO ANY MORE NOT
BEING GIVEN CITATIONS FOR AND
THINGS LIKE MAKING THE
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS YOU ARE
AWARDING MILLIONS AND MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS A YEAR TO MORE
EQUITABLE TO THE SAME STALWARTS
WHO LIKE THE BACKHAND AND CAN
PRESENT ANY SILVER PLATTER TO
OPPORTUNITY SOME MORE NON
NORMATIVE OPPORTUNITIES CAN
REACH THE MARGINS WHO HAVE
THINGS TO SAY I DON'T WANT TO
BE HOKEY AND SAY GIVE THE
PREVIOUS FOUR YEARS BUT THIS IS
A CALL TO EVERYONE'S LISTENING.
THIS IS NOT AN INDICTMENT ON
ANYONE HERE BUT I DO NOT
BELIEVE WE CAN LAY OUR PROBLEMS
AT YOUR STEP ANYMORE.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT EMAILING
YOU I DON'T BELIEVE MY PROTESTS
ARE GOING TO BE ENOUGH.
I THINK THAT TO RUN FOR OFFICE
I SWEAR TO GOD I THINK WE HAVE
TO RUN FOR OFFICE TO GOD
WHOEVER IS OUT THERE THIS FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND OFFICE IS UP
FOR ELECTION.
SOME OF THEM REQUIRE NOTHING
MORE THAN ONCE A MONTH.
XOOM CALLS TO THE PRESIDENCY
THIS TIME IN A THOUSAND OFFICES
FOR ELECTION.
AND I THINK THAT THE PEOPLE IN
POWER NEED AND HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN FROM NON
NORMATIVE PERSPECTIVES BECAUSE
ANN ARBOR IS BURNING AND THE
HOUSE IS ON FIRE AND SOME
SERIOUS WORK TO DO.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER BOB JACKSON
.
HELLO EVERYONE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO MY VERY FIRST INTERACTION
WITH POLICE IN MY LIFE I WAS 12
YEARS OLD RIGHT HERE BY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN POLICE
DEPARTMENT BY WHAT WAS THE
FREEZE BUILDING.
IT'S NOW NORTH QUAD.
SO I'M GIVING AWAY MY AGE HERE
.
SO I'M THE EMBODIMENT
OF DESPAIR.
TRAFFIC'S RIGHT HERE IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
MY CAR IN MY CURRENT CASE IS
BEING TRACKED BY M5 AND OTHER
LOCAL MEDIA OUTLETS.
LONG STORY SHORT, I WAS PULLED
OVER IN YPSILANTI FOR FAILURE
TO SIGNAL IN A RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SUBSEQUENTLY
ARRESTED FOR CONTRABAND.
I HAVE NEVER IN MY ADULT LIFE
COMMITTED A VIOLENT ACT AT
LEAST HAVE IT IN WASSENAAR
COUNTY.
POLICE TREAT ME AS LIKE A
TERRORIST.
I WONDER WHY ON THE ISSUE
OF POLICE DISCRETION TRAFFIC
STOPS FACT IS DISCRETION IS NOT
GIVEN TO POOR BLACK PEOPLE
POLITICIANS THE WORLD OVER RUN
THESE COMPASSION CAMPAIGNS YET
STUDY AFTER THIRTY YEAR AFTER
YEAR REVEALS ONGOING PATTERNS
OF ANTIBLACK ANTI WAR AND
ANTILABOR POLICING.
NPR JUST REVEALED MICHIGAN
STATE POLICE STUDY ONCE AGAIN
AFFIRMING WIDESPREAD AND
SYSTEMIC DISPARITIES WHEN
DEALING WITH BLACK MOTORISTS IN
PARTICULAR.
BUT THIS IS NOT NEWS .
SO HOW CAN POOR BLACK AND
REPRESENTED CONSTITUENTS FEEL
CONFIDENT THIS WILL BE ANY
DIFFERENT?
HOW ARE POLICE AND POLICY
MAKERS BEING HELD ACCOUNTABLE
ASIDE FROM DISTRACTIVE IDENTITY
POLITICS TO REMIND US HEY, AT
LEAST WE'RE NOT WHAT IS GOING
TO BE GAINED FROM THIS
DISCUSSION ASIDE FROM THOUGHTS
AND PRAYERS THERE IS THE REPORT
THE MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
REPORT A MOUNTAIN OF SCHOLARLY
ACADEMIC LITERATURE IN THE
VALLEY OF THE IGNORE THE MOSTLY
IGNORED AND NEGLECTED
EXPERIENCES OF MILLIONS OF POOR
AND BLACK FOLKS.
THIS IS BOTH ACADEMIC.
THIS IS BOTH ACADEMIC AND
SIMPLE.
BLACK FOLKS ARE ADVERSELY
AFFECTED BY DISCRETIONARY
POLICING, ESPECIALLY TRAFFIC
STOPS.
WE EVEN HAVE A CANDIDATE FOR
SHERIFF, A FORMER BEAT COP WHO
CENSORED PART OF HER CAMPAIGN
AROUND ELIMINATING QUOTAS BASED
ON HER PERSONAL EXPERIENCE AS A
COP.
SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS ARE GREAT
FOR PR BUT WHAT CAN VOTERS
ACTUALLY EXPECT AND WHOM AND TO
WHOM DO THEY VOICE THEIR
OPINIONS TO?
SINCE RACIST POLICING HAS BEEN
ENDEMIC FOR GENERATIONS AND THE
WORDS OF JUDGE SLAY HERE IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY WASHTENAW
COUNTY PRIDES ITSELF ON
THINKING LEFT BUT ACTUALLY IT
LOOKS RIGHT THE IDEA THAT
POLICE NEED TO DO MORE TO KEEP
US SAFE IS A FORCE IDEA MOSTLY
BY THE DEMOCRATS.
AFTER ALL THE MOOD OF THE
CONSTITUENTS AT THE TIME
OF THEIR ELECTION IN TWENTY
TWENTY WAS TO DEFEND THE
POLICE.
HOW AND WHEN DID THE ELECTORATE
SUDDENLY CHANGE ITS MIND ON
THIS ISSUE OR WAS THIS THE
DECISION OF AN EMBEDDED ELITES
WHO JUST CANNOT AND WILL NOT
FATHOM THE TERRIFYING PROSPECT
OF THE WORLD CHANGING BEFORE
THEM OF THE POLITICAL FIGHT
OF THE POLITICAL AND FINANCIAL
CONNECTIONS OF THE POLITICAL
AND FINANCIAL CONNECTIONS WITH
THE PRISON INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX
AND ITS IRRESISTIBLE
INEXHAUSTIBLE GOLDEN HONEY POT?
THINK OF CRIME AND DRUGS IN THE
WORLD BECOMES A BETTER PLACE.
THE MIGHTY APPARATUS OF THE
POLICE, PRISON GUARDS ETC.
WOULD SUDDENLY BE OUT OF JOBS
AND WE JUST CAN'T HAVE THAT CAN
WE?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOLLY
KLEINMAN.
MOLLY KLEIN.
MATT, GO AHEAD.
IT'S MY MEN AND I LIVE IN THE
FOURTH WARD EXCEPT FOR THREE
YEARS AS CHAIR OF THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION AND I
SIT ON THE COMMISSION I'M
SPEAKING TONIGHT ONLY FOR
MYSELF.
I'M GLAD TO SEE TO THE DRIVING
EQUALITY ORDINANCE AS AN
ADVOCATE FOR ROAD SAFETY AND A
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM THAT
SERVES EVERYONE I'M STRONGLY IN
FAVOR OF POLICIES THAT REDUCE
INTERACTIONS WITH THE POLICE ON
OUR ROADS AND THAT MIGHT SEEM
INCONGRUOUS THE AMERICAN
ASSOCIATION HAS DECLARED POLICE
VIOLENCE TO BE A PUBLIC HEALTH
CRISIS AS EXTENSIVE EVIDENCE
THE POLICE AND POLICING CAUSE
HARM TO INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND
OTHER PEOPLE OF COLOR
OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE CRIMINAL
LEGAL SYSTEM ROADS TO BE SAFE
FOR EVERYONE WE HAVE TO
CONSIDER NOT ONLY SAFETY FROM
TRAFFIC VIOLENCE BUT ALSO
SAFETY FROM STATE VIOLENCE.
TRAFFIC STOPS FOR THINGS LIKE A
BROKEN TAILLIGHT, TINTED
WINDOWS AND LOUD EXHAUST DO NOT
MAKE OUR ROADS SAFER.
BUT TONIGHT I'VE HEARD A LOT
ABOUT THE EXTENSIVE EVIDENCE
THAT THEY DO DISPROPORTIONATELY
HARM PEOPLE OF COLOR AND ALSO A
PERSONAL TESTIMONY ABOUT OUR
BLACK NEIGHBORS EXPERIENCES
WITH EXCESSIVE TRAFFIC STOPS IN
ANN ARBOR AND I HOPE THAT THIS
WILL MOVE US A STEP CLOSER TO A
SAFE, EQUITABLE AND JUST
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM AND
ASPIRES YOU WANT TO EXPRESS
SUPPORT FOR DC SIX RESOLUTION
IN SUPPORT OF AN RFP ISSUANCE
FOR THE UNARMED RESPONSE
PROGRAM
RECOGNIZES THE
IMPORTANCE OF CREATING AN
UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM
THAT
IS RUN INDEPENDENTLY BY THIRD
PARTY.
THIS IS A STRUCTURE THAT IS
WIDELY SUPPORTED BY BOTH
ESTABLISHED BEST PRACTICES IN
THESE PROGRAMS AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND MEMBERS OF OUR
LOCAL COMMUNITY.
I STRONGLY ENCOURAGE THE
COUNCIL TO PASS BOTH THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE AND
THE UNARMED RESPONSE RFP
ISSUANCE RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS NANCY
MARGOLIS.
MR. MAYOR AND COUNCIL PEOPLE
PERSONS I'M HERE TO SUPPORT THE
DRIVING EQUITY ORDINANCE
ROUTINE TRAFFIC STOP.
THESE ARE INTIMIDATING,
TRAUMATIZING AND EVEN WORSE
OUTCOMES ESPECIALLY FOR BLACK
AND BROWN MEN WHO EXPERIENCES
YOU'VE HEARD MUCH HIGHER
INCIDENTS I'D BE WILLING A
SHORT STORY.
I'M NANCY MARGOLIS, FOUNDER
OF EMBRACING OUR DIFFERENCES
MICHIGAN EXHIBITERS BANNERS IN
THE PARK TO PROMOTE DISCUSSIONS
AND IN DIVERSITY ON BANNER LAST
YEAR STIMULATED MANY
DISCUSSIONS A BEAUTIFUL
GORGEOUS WORK BY ANOTHER ARTIST
AND DENTIST, DR. JAMES LEE, A
YOUNG AFRICAN-AMERICAN BOY
JOGGING AND DRIVING ENTITLED
HIS WORK LIFE SEPARATE VOICE
AND SCREAM IN TERMS OF THE
EXHIBIT SO MANY BLACK AND BROWN
MOTHERS LOVE THIS PAINTING
INSIDE WITH ME HASHTAG PEDALER
EACH TIME THEIR SONS GO OUT
RUNNING OR DRIVING AND NO
ACTION CAN BE MISUNDERSTOOD AND
CAN ESCALATE.
I WANT YOU TO PASS CHAPTER ONE
TWENTY FOUR SO THAT MOTHERS CAN
FEEL SAFE FOR THEIR SONS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
STUBBIES.
ADAM DISCOVERED SANZEL.
ADAM DISCOVERED SANZEL HELLO.
>> THIS IS ADAM SAVAGE CALLING
FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
I'D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU TONIGHT
ABOUT TWO ITEMS ON YOUR AGENDA
DC TWO AND SEE TWO FIRST I'D
LIKE TO TALK ABOUT C TO THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE AND
THE SEE THIS ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT AND I HOPE TO SEE IT
PASSED ON TO THE SECOND READING
AND UNANIMOUSLY AND WITHOUT
BEING WATERED DOWN.
THANK YOU TO COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD AND FOR THOSE OF YOU
HAVE ALREADY SIGNED ON AS
CO-SPONSORS AS WE HAVE SEEN
MANY CASES AROUND THE COUNTRY
INTERACTIONS WITH POLICE CAN BE
DANGEROUS PARTICULARLY FOR
PEOPLE OF COLOR.
WE ARE NOT IMMUNE TO THAT HERE
AND WE HAVE SEEN THE DATA
SHOWING THAT EVEN THAT EVEN WE
HAVE DISPARITIES IN HOW OFTEN
PEOPLE ARE PULLED OVER AND THE
OUTCOMES OF THOSE STOPS.
THIS ORDINANCE CHANGE WILL
REDUCE THESE INTERACTIONS WITH
POLICE ELIMINATING MANY THAT
ARE FRANKLY UNNECESSARY ANYWAY
.
ENFORCEMENT CAN AND SHOULD BE
LIMITED TO DRIVING BEHAVIORS
THAT ARE ACTUALLY RELEVANT TO
TRAFFIC SAFETY SPEEDING RUNNING
RED LIGHTS, ROAD RAGE, FAILING
TO YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS AND SO
ON.
I HOPE THE DRIVING QUALITY
ORDINANCE WILL BE
UNCONTROVERSIAL AMONG COUNCIL
MEMBERS AS SOME OTHER IMPORTANT
ORDINANCE CHANGES HAVE BEEN AND
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE EVERYONE
JUMP ON BOARD TO CO-SPONSOR
THIS TONIGHT AND THE SECOND
READING I'D ALSO LIKE TO
MENTION THAT I'M GLAD TO SEE US
CONTINUE TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THE RFP FOR AN ARMED RESPONSE
PROGRAM.
I'M FOLLOWING THIS WITH A LOT
OF HOPE FOR WHAT WE CAN
ACCOMPLISH HERE IN ANN ARBOR
WITH THIS OTHER REFORMS LIKE
THE DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SUPPORT DC
TO THE FEDERAL BUILDING PLAZA
ON LIBERTY STREET FOR MY LADY.
YES, IT APPEARS THAT THE FEDS
ARE GOING TO BE MOVING FORWARD
WITH REDEVELOPING THIS PLAZA
WHATEVER COUNCIL HAS TO SAY
ABOUT IT.
I THINK IT'S GREAT THAT WE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO INFLUENCE WHAT
THESE CHANGES LOOK LIKE AND I
LIKE THE IDEAS PRESENTED IN THE
RESOLUTION.
PEDESTRIAN STREETS ARE GREAT
AND I REALLY ENJOY YOUR SUMMER
STREETS OVER ON MAIN STREET IF
WE CAN GET A PEDESTRIAN NICE
BLOCK EVERYBODY OUT OF THE
VEHICLE WOULD CERTAINLY MAKE
THAT BLOCK MORE PLEASANT TO
VISIT AND WHAT BETTER PLACE TO
PUT IT THAN IN THE SAME BLOCK
AS THE TRANSIT CENTER WILLIAM
IN DIVISION BIKEWAYS WELL I
RARELY BOTHER TO BRING MY CAR
WITH ME WHEN I VISIT DOWNTOWN.
I KNOW MANY PEOPLE DUE TO THE
FACT THAT IT'S ONLY A BLOCK OR
SO AWAY FROM THREE LARGE
PARKING GARAGES SHOULD
ALLEVIATE THAT CONCERN.
PLEASE ALSO PASS DC TO TONIGHT
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EDWARD
SANTURCE AND THANK YOU AND I
APPRECIATE WHY WE ARE HERE
TODAY.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO ASK EACH
OF YOU TO EXCUSE OF WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A PARTIE?
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
HAVING A WALK PASS ON THE WEST
BANK AND WHERE WE ARE HERE
TODAY?
I TELL YOU THE ONLY DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THEM IS THE DATES THE
TIME THE ONLY DIFFERENCE THIS
IS A PRACTICE THAT GOES BACK TO
SLAVE CATCHERS OR TO A SLAVE
PATROL.
THAT'S THE ONLY DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN WHAT WE ADDRESS IN THE
DAY AND THOSE ISSUES.
THERE SHOULDN'T BE A SINGLE
PERSON ON THIS CALL SO THEY
DON'T SUPPORT THAT RESOLUTION.
NOT A SINGLE PERSON THAT
SHOULDN'T BE A SINGLE
CONVERSATION WITH AN OPPOSITION
TO THIS PERRY PERRY THERE IS NO
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN WHAT HAPPENS
IN THE WEST BANK WITH A MOTHER
OR A FATHER OR SON OR DAUGHTER
OR A GRANDPARENT IN THEIR OWN
COUNTRY HAVE TO HAVE REPASS THE
GROUP HAS A CERTAIN POINT
THERE'S NO DIFFERENCE FROM WHAT
WENT ON IN SOUTH AFRICA, THE
RACIAL RECONCILIATION WITH
APARTHEID.
THERE'S NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE COMMITTEE AND FOR ANY OF US
TO TAKE A PRETEND THAT THIS WAS
A LINTANG GOAL.
LET'S HEAR RIGHT NOW IT'S STILL
HAPPENING TODAY RIGHT RIGHT NOW
NOT YESTERDAY TODAY THIS IS AN
EXPRESSION I FIND THIS IS WHAT
THE KING DOES ACKNOWLEDGE HAVE
ALLOWED IT TO CONTINUE GOOD
PEOPLE ALLOWED THIS TO CONTINUE
TO BE A GOOD PERSON TODAY THAT
BE A GOOD PERSON TODAY.
THIS IS IMPORTANT.
YOU STATE SUPREME COURT AT SOME
POINT WILL HAVE THE PRIVILEGE
TO BE ABLE TO ANSWER TO THIS
AND THEY'RE GOING TO MOVE TO
TOWNS AND CITIES LIKE THIS AND
THEY'RE GOING TO SAY WHAT WAS
THE PEOPLE'S VOICE ABOUT THIS
HAS TO EVOLVE AND CHANGE.
DON'T BE ASININITY.
UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT
WILL BE ABSENT.
AFRICAN AMERICANS SPEND
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, NOT
MILLIONS BILLIONS.
THIS REPRESENT THE AND THE
INVISIBLE DEBTS TO AFRICAN
AMERICANS PAY IN THIS NATION TO
TAKE AND TRY TO EXERCISE THE
FIRST AMENDMENT THE RIGHT
OF ASSOCIATION.
YOU CAN A FOSHAY IF SOMEONE
INTERFERES WITH YOUR MOVEMENT.
THIS ALSO REPRESENTS THE FIRST
WITH THE RIGHT THE FIFTH
AMENDMENT, THE RIGHT TO BE
SECURE IN YOUR PERSON IN YOUR
BOOKS.
YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
THE ONLY CONSTITUTION AMENDMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES THEY LOOK
LIKE SWISS CHEESE IS THE FOURTH
AMENDMENT.
>> THANK YOU BECAUSE IT
INVOLVED BLACK PEOPLE.
THANK YOU VERY BLACK PEOPLE.
IT IS CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
LUCK WITH CHANGE.
LET'S MAKE IT LOOK LIKE THE
SECOND AMENDMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ARE YOU
SURE DR.
ALL RIGHT, I EVERYBODY
MY NAME IS A DOCTOR FOR ANYONE
WHO DOESN'T KNOW I SERVED IN
LAW ENFORCEMENT FOR MANY YEARS
SO I'LL BE SPEAKING FROM THAT
PERSPECTIVE ABOUT THE TRAFFIC
STOP ORDINANCE.
I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU ALL
THAT I'VE WORKED ON THIS
ESPECIALLY CYNTHIA HENDERSON
WHO I KNOW A LOT OF EFFORT IN
THIS.
THANK YOU, JOHN CORNELL FOR
COSPONSORING AND THIS ISSUE IS
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT A LOT OF WAYS WHEN
I WORKED AS A DEPUTY ON PATROL
IN WASHINGTON COUNTY, I
REMEMBER PULLING SOMEBODY OVER
AS A NEW RECRUIT BECAUSE THEIR
EXHAUST WAS LOUD AND IN
TRAINING THAT WAS ONE OF THE
STOPS THAT THEY TOLD US THAT WE
COULD PULL PEOPLE OVER FOR.
I REMEMBER GOING UP TO THE CAR
AND I REMEMBER SEEING HOW
SCARED THEY WERE OF ME BECAUSE
OF THIS SITUATION AND I ASKED
HIM I SAID HEY, I JUST PULLED
YOU OVER FOR YOUR EXISTING ROAD
AND THEN THEY WENT ON VERY
QUICKLY TO TELL ME HOW THEY
WERE TRYING TO FIX OUR CAR AND
HOW THEY JUST DID NOT HAVE THE
MONEY.
I REMEMBER WALKING BACK TO MY
PATROL CAR AND SITTING THERE
WONDERING WHY ARE WE PULLING
PEOPLE OVER FOR THIS AND THE
HARD PILL TO SWALLOW OF CAUSING
THE TRAUMA I DID AND PULLING
THIS PERSON OVER FOR THIS
OFFENSE AND I THINK THAT, YOU
KNOW, I NOW HAVE A SOCIAL WORK
DEGREE AND I THINK WHEN WE
THINK ABOUT TRAFFIC
ENFORCEMENT, WHAT WE NEED TO
REALIZE IT IS A TRAUMATIC
INTERACTION FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
BUT FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT WHEN WE
PULL SOMEONE OVER THAT CAN BE A
DANGEROUS INTERACTION AND SO WE
SHOULD MINIMIZE THOSE
INTERACTIONS WHENEVER POSSIBLE.
WE SHOULD MAKE THEM FOR SAFETY
REASONS BUT WE SHOULD NOT BE
MAKING THEM BECAUSE OF A
REGISTRATION STICKER THAT GOT
PUT IN THE WRONG SPOT OR AIR
FRESHENER OR A CRACK IN THE
WINDSHIELD.
THESE THINGS REALLY HURT THE
TRUST THAT WE ARE TRYING TO
BUILD IN COMMUNITIES.
AND SO THE MORE THAT WE CAN DO
ORDINANCES LIKE THIS, I THINK
OUR STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
TO START REDUCING THE
UNNECESSARY CONTACT THAT DOES
IT REALLY NEED TO TAKE PLACE IF
IT'S NOT A SAFETY RISK OR A
SAFETY HAZARD?
I THINK THAT THIS WILL ALSO
HELP PROTECT YOUNGER OFFICERS
SO THEY WON'T HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THAT SITUATION.
I DID ON PATROL AND I HAVE TO
LIVE WITH THAT TRAUMA KNOWING
THAT I CAUSED HARM.
AND SO THE MORE THAT WE CAN
START RESTRUCTURING OUR LAWS
AND OUR ORDINANCES AND WHAT WE
HAVE LAW ENFORCEMENT DO, THE
BETTER WE CAN ACTUALLY HAVE A
COMMUNITY WHERE PEOPLE ARE NOT
BEING HARMED, NOT BEING KILLED
AND NOT BEING INJURED BECAUSE
OF OUR PRACTICES.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
ALL FOR YOUR WORK.
I ESPECIALLY WANT TO THANK THE
PERSON I KNOW THAT YOU PUT A
LOT OF WORK INTO THIS AND THANK
EVERYONE HERE TODAY FOR
LISTENING AND HEARING US OUT.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SCOTT
PETERO.
>> MY APOLOGIES FOR YOU BEING
SO I I CAME HERE FOR A FEW
REASONS TONIGHT FIRST TOO
ENTHUSIASTICALLY SUPPORT DC TO
AND TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S INTENT TO
REDEVELOP THE PLAZA IN FRONT
OF THE FEDERAL BUILDING AND TO
COORDINATE CHANGES TO LIBERTY
STREET TO CREATE A LARGER
IMPROVED WELL SITUATED PLAZA
FOR THE COMMUNITY TO GATHER IN
CELEBRATION AND PROTEST.
AS WE LEARNED WITH THE CITY'S
RECENT BIG PICTURE DISCUSSIONS
AROUND THE FEDERAL BUILDING
SITE, THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
AN ENORMOUS ANIMAL THAT MOVES
SLOWLY WITH GREAT INERTIA.
BUT THEIR INTENTIONS HERE FOR
THIS PLAZA REDEVELOPMENT ARE
CLEAR THE RESOURCES AT THE
READY AND WE SHOULD CATCH THAT
WAVE AND ENSURE THAT WE GET THE
BEST POSSIBLE OUTCOME FOR THE
CITY AND ITS RESIDENTS
SPECIFICALLY I WANT TO SUPPORT
THE INTENT TO USE ALL OF THE
ADJACENT RIGHT OF WAY ON
LIBERTY STREET FOR INCLUSION IN
THIS PLAZA.
I'D LIKE SOME MORE CHALLENGING
PUBLIC SITES DOWNTOWN.
THIS SITE HAS THE INGREDIENTS
FOR A SUCCESSFUL AND VIBRANT
PUBLIC PLAZA SPACE.
IT HAS ACTIVE USES FACING FROM
MULTIPLE SIDES.
IT HAS TERRA FIRMA FOR
SUSTAINING TREES AND OTHER
VEGETATION.
IT IS OPEN AND TRANSPARENT TO
THE SURROUNDING STREETS.
THERE WILL BE LOGISTICAL
TRADEOFFS AND COMPLICATIONS FOR
THE ADJACENT PARCELS AND FOR
THOSE TRAVELING THROUGH
DOWNTOWN.
BUT THOSE ARE SMALL COSTS
RELATIVE TO POTENTIAL BENEFITS
THIS KIND OF SPACE WILL BRING
WHILE I'M HERE I ALSO WANT TO
SUPPORT PASSING CITY TO TO
LIMIT PRETEXTUAL STOPPED BY THE
POLICE AND ENCOURAGE YOUR
ONGOING SUPPORT FOR CREATING
AND FUNDING IN OUR RESPONSE
PROGRAM BY PASSING DC SIX
WHENEVER WE USE ARMED POLICE TO
RESPOND TO COMMUNITY NEEDS WE
INEVITABLY RISK THAT RESOLUTION
WILL COME AT THE END OF THE
BARREL OF A GUN OR OTHER
VIOLENT FORCE AND IT IS
MARGINALIZE PEOPLE AS WE'VE
HEARD TONIGHT OF MULTIPLE
STRIPES THAT SUFFER AN UNEQUAL
BURDEN AND THIS IS AN
UNAVOIDABLE OUTCOME.
SO THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR
WORK ON THIS.
AND LASTLY, I ALSO SUPPORT THE
PASSAGE OF C ONE AT FIRST
READING TONIGHT WE'RE IN A
HOUSING CRISIS.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING OF ALL
KINDS.
THERE'S A HIGH DEMAND FOR TO
LIVE.
IT'S A CYCLOSET VACANT FOR FAR
TOO LONG.
THE DEVELOPER'S PLAN COMPORTS
TO ZONING ORDINANCE THAT
APPLIES TO THE SITE.
THERE'S NO REASON NOT TO SAY NO
THERE'S NO REASON TO SAY NO TO
TWO HUNDRED ADDITIONAL HOMES
ESPECIALLY SINCE IT'S COMING
WITH ALMOST NO PARKING.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SINCE WE ARE STILL UNDER THE
FORTY FIVE MINUTE TIME OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS TO KNOW WHICH THEN
I'LL WAIT UNTIL ZOOM.
GO AHEAD MAKE HIGH COUNCIL.
>> I'M THE REVEREND DANIEL
WHITE.
I LIVE IN THE FIVE HUNDRED
BLOCK OF SILER CHURCH ROAD IN
THE FOURTH I'M CLONAN TO SPEAK
IN SUPPORT OF THE DRIVING
EQUITY ORDINANCE SEE TO DIRTY
POLICING AND POLICE
INTERACTIONS WITH CIVILIANS
NATIONWIDE OCCUR DURING TRAFFIC
STOPS OFTEN CIVIL INFRACTIONS
BUT RACIAL INEQUITY IS ENDEMIC
IN OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
AND THE KEY DRIVER OF THOSE
INEQUITIES IS THE SO-CALLED
PREETAM OR PRETEXTUAL STOP.
>> THESE STOPS ARE MADE BY
POLICE OFFICERS AS A RESULT
OF AN OBSERVED TRAFFIC OR
AUTOMATS INFRACTION BUT THEY
ARE REALLY ABOUT AN OFFICER
WANTING TO UNCOVER EVIDENCE OR
TO CONDUCT A SEARCH.
THE DATA SHOWS THAT BLACK
MOTORISTS ARE SIGNIFICANTLY
MORE LIKELY TO BE SUBJECTED TO
PRETEXTUAL STOPS THAN WHITE
PEOPLE AND PRETEXTUAL STOPS ARE
HEAVILY ASSOCIATED WITH RACIAL
PROFILING AND YOUR OWN
INDEPENDENT POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEE NOTED DURING THEIR
UPDATE TO COUNCIL ON JUNE 5TH
THAT THIS DATA ISN'T JUST
COMING FROM THERE NATIONWIDE.
IT'S ACTUALLY RIGHT HERE IN ANN
.
>> ACCORDING TO THE RESEARCH
CONDUCTED BY THE SMART CENTER
AT SMU THAT EVALUATED APD STOP
DATA FROM TWENTY SEVENTEEN TO
TWENTY NINETEEN IT FOUND SINCE
THE DISPARITIES ACROSS EVERY
DIMENSION EXAM BLACK MOTORISTS
ARE BEING STOPPED AND SEARCHED
IN ANN ARBOR MORE FREQUENTLY
THAN WHITE RESIDENTS.
IT MAKES IT UNSAFE FOR A BLACK
MALE TO DRIVE IN OUR CITY.
>> NOW WHAT I'VE NOTICED IS YOU
CANNOT TRAIN AWAY RACIAL BIAS.
YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO CHANGE THE
UNDERLYING SYSTEMS THAT ALLOW
RACIAL BIAS TO HARM PEOPLE LIKE
MYSELF AND OTHER RESIDENTS.
>> NOTHING ELSE IS A POLICY
DECISION.
IT'S A POLICY DECISION TO
SUPPORT THE ONGOING RACIAL BIAS
THAT'S EMBEDDED IN OUR EXISTING
SYSTEM.
SO I AM INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL TO
COUNCIL MEMBER CARSON FOR
TAKING ON THIS IMPORTANT ISSUE
TO ENSURE THAT I CAN MOVE ABOUT
THE CITY FREELY.
IN ADDITION, I WANT TO OFFER MY
SUPPORT FOR DC AND I'M
GRATEFUL THAT UNARMED PUBLIC
SAFETY IS MOVING FORWARD IN ANN
ARBOR I WAS HEARTBROKEN WHEN I
HEARD ABOUT SCOTT FITZPATRICK'S
EXPERIENCE WHEN HE CALLED FOR A
MENTAL HEALTH WELLNESS CHECK
BUT INSTEAD WATCHED HIS WIFE
GET ARRESTED AND THEN INCURRED
OVER TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
FEES AND FINES AND THEY HAD TO
LIVE WITH THE TRAUMA OF THAT
EXPERIENCE FOR THE REST
OF THEIR LIVES.
>> THIS WAS A CATEGORICAL
FAILURE OF OUR COMMUNITY TO
CARE FOR EACH OTHER.
AND SO I'M HOPEFUL THAT THE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT REPORT
AFFIRMS WITH THE COALITION
REVISIONING OUR SAFETY HAS
ALREADY PROPOSED OVER A YEAR
AGO THAT PUBLIC UNARMED SAFETY
SHOULD BE OK
.
THANK YOU.
THE FORTY FIVE MINUTES HAVING
EXPIRED THE BALANCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME WILL BE
HEARD IF AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW AT THE END
OF THE MEETING ARE THE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL CATHERINE AKMAN PINKNER
WANTED TO LET FOLKS IN THE
FOURTH WARD KNOW THAT THERE'S A
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SESSION ON
THE S 7TH GREENVIEW PROJECT.
IT'S COMING UP ON JUNE TWENTY
SEVENTH AT SIX P.M. AT THE
PITTSVILLE BRANCH LIBRARY.
THIS IS THE SECOND PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT MEETING AND CITY
STAFF ARE GOING TO PRESENT SOME
PROPOSED PROPOSED SITES FOR THE
ROAD.
RESIDENTS WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK
.
IF YOU WANT TO FIND MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THIS PROJECT
IT CAN BE FOUND ON THE PROJECT
WEBSITE IF YOU JUST GOOGLE
SOMETHING GREENVIEW PROJECT AND
I I ALSO WANTED TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT I HAD THE CHANCE TO GO ON
A RIDE ALONG WITH THE COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL AND THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT LAST NIGHT FOR A FEW
HOURS AND I WAS JUST REALLY
IMPRESSED WITH THEIR
PROFESSIONALISM, THEIR
GENEROSITY AND THEIR CAREFUL
DEDICATION TO THIS COMMUNITY.
SO I WANTED TO EXTEND MY
WARMEST THANKS TO CHIEF
BATTALION CHIEF HUGHES AND THE
ENTIRE SHIFT THREE CREW THANK
YOU KOTSENBURG CORNELL, THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU TO REMEMBER AGAIN FOR
SHORTENING MY COMMENTS RELATIVE
TO THE ENTIRE FIRE DEPARTMENT I
JUST I GUESS REINFORCE MY
GRATITUDE AND THAT WE SHOULD BE
REALLY PROUD TO HAVE THESE
HIGHLY TRAINED, GENUINELY
CARING PROFESSIONALS WORKING
FOR OUR CITY.
FOR THOSE OF YOU IN THE WHO
TRAVEL ALONG STADIUM, THERE ARE
NEW LIGHTS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN STADIUM WILL BE
INSTALLED ON JUNE TWENTY EIGHTH
AND JUNE TWENTY NINTH VIA
HELICOPTER SO THAT WILL BE
QUITE A BIT OF DISTURBANCE IN
THAT AREA.
BUT THE PLAN CURRENTLY IS TO
MAINTAIN TWO WAY TRAFFIC BY
SHIFTING THE LANES WEST DURING
THE LIFTS WHICH WILL IMPACT
DEDICATED BIKE LANES BUT NOT
VEHICLE TRAFFIC.
SO FOR COMMUTERS WHO COME IN BY
BIKE ALONG STADIUM AND TOWN
JUST BE AWARE OF THAT.
AND THEN ONE FINAL NOTE THAT
OUR LISTENING HOUR IN COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS WILL BE ON JULY
16TH, 4:00 P.M. AT THE AC AND
WE WELCOME OUR NEIGHBORS TO
COME AND SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
AND CONCERNS.
THANK YOU.
>> HOUSE MEMBER DENHA.
>> THANK YOU, MR. DEPUTY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR YOUR STOLE MY
THUNDER A LITTLE BIT HERE BUT I
TOO WANTED TO CONGRATULATE
CLARK ON HER MAKING IT OFFICIAL
AS THE NEW PRESIDENT OF THE
MICHIGAN MUNICIPAL CLERKS AND I
JUST ALSO WANTED TO SAY SOME
WONDERFUL THINGS ABOUT HER AND
SO I MEAN OUR CLERK IS AN
EXCEPTIONAL LEADER ON THE FRONT
LINES DEFENDING OUR DEMOCRACY.
SHE HAS A LONG AND IMPRESSIVE
RECORD WORKING TO ENSURE OUR
ELECTIONS ARE FREE, FAIR AND
SECURE WHILE ALSO ADVOCATING TO
IMPROVE ELECTION SYSTEMS
STATEWIDE.
AS A LONGTIME CIVIL SERVANT,
SHE RARELY SEEKS A SPOTLIGHT
FOR HERSELF BUT HAS QUIETLY AND
EFFECTIVELY EARNED A REPUTATION
AROUND THE STATE AS A LEADER IN
DEFENDING VOTING RIGHTS, MAKING
VOTER REGISTRATION EASY AND
ACCESSIBLE, IMPROVING VOTER
EDUCATION, EXPANDING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS TO
VOTE AND ELIMINATING BARRIERS
FOR ELIGIBLE VOTERS TO FULLY
PARTICIPATE IN OUR DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS
MY GRATITUDE.
WE'RE INCREDIBLY LUCKY TO HAVE
AN AWARD WINNING CLARK LIKE
CLARK BY ADMINISTERING OUR
LOCAL ELECTIONS AND THE
MICHIGAN MUNICIPAL CLERKS WILL
UNDOUBTEDLY BENEFIT FROM HER
SERVICE.
>> CARL ZIMMER HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO LAST MONDAY I
ACTUALLY WAS VERY HONORED TO
RECEIVE FOUNTAIN HOUSE'S
INAUGURAL COMMUNITY CHANGEMAKER
AWARD IN NEW YORK CITY AT A
BEAUTIFUL GLASS HOUSE IN
MANHATTAN AS MOUNTAIN HOUSE
CELEBRATED THEIR SEVENTY FIFTH
ANNIVERSARY WITH THE MOVING
BEYOND THE MARGINS NATIONAL
BENEFIT FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO
HAVE NOT HEARD OF FOUNTAIN
HOUSE THEY HAVE BEEN AROUND FOR
SEVENTY FIVE YEARS AND ARE PART
OF A NATIONWIDE CLUB HOUSE
MODEL.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE ONE HERE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR CALLED
BRUSSTAR CLUBHOUSE FOUNTAIN
HOUSE FIGHTS TO IMPROVE HEALTH,
INCREASE OPPORTUNITY AND SOCIAL
AND ECONOMIC ISOLATION FOR
PEOPLE MOST IMPACTED BY MENTAL
ILLNESS.
SO JUST KIND OF WANTED TO TO
THANK THEM AGAIN
PUBLICLY FOR
HOSTING MYSELF AND MY FAMILY IN
NEW YORK CITY LAST WEEKEND.
IT WAS IT WAS AN AMAZING EVENT.
>> THANK YOU.
DALLAS MAVERICKS.
THANKS.
CONGRATULATIONS TO MEMBER AND
THANK YOU TO ALL WHO CAME OUT
THIS EVENING FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
IT'S WONDERFUL AND WE SEE ALL
OF OUR MANY OF OUR SEATS FILLED
AND SO THANK YOU FOR TAKING THE
TIME TO TO SPEAK UP TONIGHT.
I WANT A COUPLE OF COMMENTS
ANNOUNCEMENTS AROUND EVENTS FOR
THOSE OF YOU WHO LIKE TO ENJOY
THE FOURTH OF JULY PARADE, IT'S
A LITTLE DIFFERENT THIS YEAR.
THE JAYCEES ARE NOT GOING TO BE
HOLDING A PARADE IN DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR DUE TO DOWNTOWN
CONSTRUCTION AND THEY'VE ARE
HOSTING IT AROUND BRIARWOOD
MALL.
SO DON'T WALK DOWNTOWN ON THE
FOURTH FOR THAT EVENT AND THAT
YOU'LL SEE AS ONE OF THE FIRST
AGENDA ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
AGENDA ASSUMING IT PASSES THE
SPRAY PARK THAT THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT HAS IN CONJUNCTION
WITH THAT ON MAINARD STREET
WHERE LITTLE KIDS CAN RUN
THROUGH THE FIRE HOSE AND HOLD
ONE OF THEM IS GOING TO BE
POSTPONED LIKELY UNTIL JULY
14TH FROM I THINK IS A FRIDAY
FROM TEN THIRTY TO ELEVEN
THIRTY.
SO IT WILL STILL BE GOING I'M
JUST A DIFFERENT DAY AND THEN
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN LEARNING THE
LATEST AROUND THE GILMAN
JACKSON PLUME WHICH RUNS UNDER
MUCH OF THE FIFTH WARD, THERE'S
CAN BE A COMMUNITY FORUM HOSTED
BY CONGRESSWOMAN DINGELL ON
WEDNESDAY JUNE TWENTY EIGHT
FROM FIVE THIRTY FIVE THIRTY TO
SEVEN P.M. AT THE LEARNING
RESOURCE CENTER WASHTENAW
COUNTY.
A NUMBER OF STATE AND FEDERAL
OFFICIALS WILL BE THERE FROM
THE EPA AS WELL AS LOCAL AND
STATE REPRESENTATIVES.
>> SO THANK YOU SO MUCH IA.
THANK YOU.
JUST A QUICK NOTE THAT THE LONG
ANTICIPATED OHIO CHURCH ROAD
PROJECT IS DONE PRETTY MUCH
HALLELUJAH THE ROAD IS BACK
OPEN AGAIN.
THIS PROJECT MANY MAY RECALL IT
WAS A LONG TIME IN THE MAKING
AND ALSO DELAYED IT WAS
SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN LAST YEAR
AND ENDED UP HAVING TO BE
DELAYED TO THIS YEAR.
BUT HERE WE ARE JANUARY JUNE
20TH AND IT'S IT'S DONE
ALREADY.
SO IF WE DID RIBBON CUTTINGS
FOR NEW ROADS THIS WOULD BE ONE
THAT QUALIFIES.
THERE IS SOME ADDITIONAL WORK
THERE GET THE CONTRACTORS ARE
GOING TO BE COMING BACK FOR
SOME PUNCH LIST STUFF WHEN THEY
COME BACK TO DO THE SIDEWALK
ACTUALLY THERE WILL BE A
SIDEWALK.
IT'S GOING TO BE INSTALLED
ALONG THE PUBLIC SCHOOL'S
PROPERTY TO COMPLETE THAT
NETWORK THERE.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT, FOLKS ARE
ABLE TO DRIVE THROUGH THAT AREA
AGAIN FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL I LIKE TO REQUEST
A CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO CITY COUNCIL AT THE JUNE
FIVE REGULAR SESSION THE ENERGY
COMMISSION JACOBS SANDRA MOVI
COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MCCONNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF NO NOMINATION ON
FAVORITE POST IT IS APPROVED.
>> I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE PUBLIC ART
COMMISSION FENGJUN WE NOW HAVE
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE OR CONSENT THE GENERAL
MOVE LIKE THE OTHER SECOND
COUNCIL MEMBER IN DENHA I THINK
WE HAVE A STAFF INTRODUCTION OR
TO MR. FORNA ASK FOR THE
DIFFERENT ORDINANCE AT MA'AM
,
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
THANK YOU.
SO BOTH FOR RAISING DO WE NOT
NORMALLY DO THE INTRODUCTIONS
WHEN THE AGENDA ITEM COMES UP?
WELL IT'S THE CONSENT AGENDA
SHORT WAS TO BE MOVING SAID
THAT I MOVE IN SECOND GRADE.
I THINK WE'VE MOVED IN SECOND
HALF.
>> YEAH FORGIVE ME SORRY WE
HAVE INTRODUCTION ITEMS FOR K
FIVE AND SEE A SEVENTEEN STAFF
CAN BE AVAILABLE WHENEVER
COUNCIL'S READY PLEASE.
>> OK JOSH LANDEFELD AND MR.
MCDONALD I BELIEVE THAT THERE
ARE QUESTIONS PRESENTED FOR C
FIVE JOSH WILL BE AVAILABLE
VIRTUALLY
WE CAN HEAR YOU SO I
AM GOING TO BE SPEAKING ABOUT
QUESTION ONE IN REGARDS TO THE
ALMEN DENHA INSTRUCTIONS AND
ONE IN REGARDS TO THE STATEMENT
IN THE RESOLUTION ALSO FOUND
THAT THE TWO ADDITIONAL LOSS
WITHIN THE CONTAINERIZATION
RESTRICTIONS EITHER ON THE DEED
THEMSELVES OR BY REFERENCE TO
OTHER DEEDS THAT CONTAIN RACIAL
RESTRICTIONS.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT DO YOU
MEAN BY REFERENCE TO THE OTHER
GATES?
THE SECOND QUESTION IS WHAT ARE
WHAT WERE THE RACIAL
RESTRICTIONS ON THE DENHA PARK
IS MADE UP OF A LOT OF A
VARIETY OF LIFE DONATED BY
VARIOUS INDIVIDUALS ARE DONATED
BY THE THE FAMILY DID NOT HAVE
ANY RACIAL RESTRICTION ON THE
DENHA HOWEVER OTHER DONATED
LOTTE'S DID HAVE THE RACIAL
RESTRICTIONS WHICH IS NOT
WITHIN THIS RESOLUTION IN
REGARDS TO WHAT THE
RESTRICTIONS THE MOST COMMON
RESTRICTION WAS THAT NO PORTION
OF THE LAND HEREIN DESCRIBES
SHALL BE OCCUPIED BY PERSONS
OTHER THAN THE CAUCASIAN RACE
EXCEPT AS SERVANTS OR GUESTS.
SO THAT WAS QUESTION ONE.
I WILL GO AHEAD AND GO TO
NUMBER FOUR WHICH SPEAKS TO THE
WHEREAS WHEREAS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR PARKS AND RECREATION
SERVICES DRIVE TO PROVIDE
EXCEPTIONAL EXPERIENCES FOR
VISITORS AND RESIDENTS
REGARDLESS OF RACE, AGE,
GENDER, SEXUAL ORIENTATION,
INCOME, ETHNICITY OR ABILITY
WHEREAS THE PARK ADVISORY
COMMISSION BELIEVES EVERYONE
SHOULD FEEL SAFE, WELCOMED AND
RESPECTED IN THE CITY PARKS AND
THAT REMOVING THESE PROHIBITIVE
RESTRICTIONS FROM THE DEEDS IS
ASSOCIATED WITH AHMED DENHA
PARK IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
SCHOOL QUESTION RELATED TO THAT
STATEMENT IS DOES THIS MEAN THE
PARK COMMISSION WILL PERFORM A
COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF ALL
CITY PARKS TO THE OTHER
COVENANTS EXIST?
AND SPEAKING WITH PARK AT THAT
MEETING, PRACTICABLY SUPPORTS
THE REVIEW OF ALL CITY
PROPERTIES DETERMINED OF OTHER
COVENANTS EXIST IMPACTED PARK
STAFF WILL FOLLOW THE DIRECTIVE
OF COUNCIL REGARDING THIS
PROCESS.
THOSE ARE THE TWO QUESTIONS
THAT I WAS CHARGED WITH
ANSWERING AS THEY RELATED TO
THE PARK SITE.
MR MCDONALD HAS THE OTHER ONE.
SOMEBODY HAS QUESTIONS FOR ME
AT THIS POINT, MR MCDONALD,
KEVIN MACDONALD, CHIEF DEPUTY
CITY ATTORNEY.
I'M GOING TO RESPOND TO THE
REST OF THE QUESTIONS.
QUESTION NUMBER TWO ON DECEMBER
13TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN ENACTED THE
DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS ACT WHICH
ALLOWS MICHIGAN PROPERTY OWNERS
AND MICHIGAN COMMUNITY
ASSOCIATIONS TO RECORD A
DISCHARGE THAT AFFIRMATIVELY
REMOVES DISCRIMINATORY
RESTRICTIONS FROM DEEDS AND
OTHER RECORDED DOCUMENTS.
HOW COULD A PROPERTY OWNER DO
THIS IN THE FIRST PART THAT
QUESTION AND IT SAYS COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATION DOES THIS MEAN
THESE RESTRICTIONS MAY EXIST ON
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE DEEDS AS
WELL?
>> THE PROCESS IS DETAILED IN
THE DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED
RESTRICTIVE PROHIBITED
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS ACT WHICH
IS FOUNDED MTEL FIVE SIX FIVE
POINT EIGHT SIX ONE.
THE STATUTE PROVIDES A FORM AND
A PROPERTY OWNER CAN COMPLETE
THE FORM, HAVE IT NOTARIZED AND
RECORDED WITH IN OUR CASE THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY RECORDER
OF DEEDS WHICH IS WHAT IS
PROPOSED HERE.
THERE ARE ALSO THERE IS ALSO A
SIMPLIFIED PROCESS TO DEFINE
FOR HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS FOR
PRIVATE SUBDIVISIONS AND
ASSOCIATION BOARDS FOR
CONDOMINIUMS TO TAKE ACTION AT
THE REQUEST OF THOSE MEMBERS.
THESE ARE THE ORGANIZATIONS
THAT WAS THAT WERE BEING
REFERRED TO IN THE MEMO AS
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATIONS.
THESE RESIDENTIAL RESTRICTIONS
COULD EXIST ON COMMERCIAL REAL
ESTATE IS PROPERTY USE CHANGES
OVER TIME AND ALTHOUGH THESE
WERE RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS FOR
RESIDENTIAL AND THERE ARE LEGAL
AND ENFORCEABLE, THAT LANGUAGE
COULD STILL EXIST IN DOCUMENTS
QUESTION NUMBER THREE WHEREAS
THE LOT WITH RESTRICTIONS ARE
WITHIN OAK CREST SUBDIVISIONS
LOTS ONE FORTY SEVEN FORTY
FORTY NINE ETC. DOES THE OAK
CREST SUBDIVISION STILL EXIST?
IF SO, DOES THE REST OF THE
SUBDIVISION STILL HAVE THE
COVENANTS?
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE DID
NOT COMPLETE A SEARCH FOR ANY
PROPERTY OUTSIDE OF PARK LAND
OWNED BY THE CITY WAS JUST OUT
OF THE SCOPE OF WHAT WE WERE
ASKED TO DO.
THE PRIVATE SUBDIVISION OAK
SUBDIVISION WHICH INCLUDED
ALMOND DENHA PARK INCLUDED LOTS
FROM OAK CREEK SUBDIVISIONS
WOULD FOLLOW THAT THERE ARE
LIKELY OTHER LOTS THAT
REFERENCE THE SAME ILLEGAL
UNENFORCEABLE RESTRICTIVE
COVENANTS QUESTION NUMBER FIVE
THE CITY OWNS AND IS RECENTLY
ACQUIRED LAND FOR THE GREENBELT
.
DID ANY OF THAT LAND HAVE
RACIAL COVENANTS ON THE DEEDS?
SO DID THE STAFF ALREADY GO
THROUGH THE STEPS TO DISCHARGE
THEM AND OUR ANSWER IS THE CITY
IS NOT REVIEWED THE DEED
HISTORY FOR RECENTLY REQUIRED
PROPERTIES FOR RACIAL COVENANTS
OR ANY OTHER ILLEGAL
UNENFORCEABLE COVENANTS.
WE CAN'T HAVE TITLE COMPANIES
TO REVIEW THIS IN FUTURE
TRANSACTIONS PROACTIVELY.
>> QUESTION NUMBER NUMBER SIX
DOES STAFF KNOW IF ANY OF THE
REPUBLIC SCHOOL OWNED LAND HAS
RACIAL COVENANTS ON THE DEEDS
INCLUDING THE NEW LOFTS THE
DISTRICT RECENTLY PURCHASED?
FOR EXAMPLE, WE KNOW THAT
CERTAIN NEIGHBORHOODS IN
SUBDIVISION WHICH HAD RACIAL
COVENANTS AS THE HAND
OF SUBDIVISION RECENTLY HAD
THEIR RACIAL COVENANT
DISCHARGED LAST YEAR.
THE ASSUMPTION WOULD BE THAT A
SCHOOL WITHIN THAT SUBDIVISION
AREA COULD HAVE A COVENANT AS
WELL
DEPENDING ON WHEN IT WAS
BUILT CORRECT AND THAT STAFF
HAS NO KNOWLEDGE PROPERTIES NOT
OWNED BY THE CITY.
WE'RE NOT PROACTIVELY RESEARCH
FOR RACIAL COVENANTS.
IT WAS JUST THIS ONE TIME
ACTION AND THEN FINALLY SEVEN
JUST COUNCIL NEED TO PASS A
RESOLUTION FOR A COMPREHENSIVE
REVIEW OF DEEDS FOR CITY OWNED
LAND OR CAN STAFF DO THAT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH OUR PAST EQUITY
RESOLUTIONS WE WILL INCORPORATE
A SEARCH FOR THESE RESTRICTIVE
COVENANTS PROACTIVELY IN FUTURE
PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS AND WHEN
WE HAVE OTHER REASONS TO BE
RESEARCHING DEEDS.
BUT I WOULD ASK THAT COUNCIL
PASS A RESOLUTION FOR US TO TO
COMPLETE A COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW
AFTER FURTHER CONSULTATION WITH
THE ADMINISTRATOR AND THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO THE SIGNIFICANT
RESOURCES INVOLVED.
THERE ARE APPROXIMATELY ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FIVE PARKS
WITH SOME CONSISTING
OF MULTIPLE PARCELS WITHOUT
INCLUDING OTHER CITY PROPERTIES
SUCH AS CITY HALL FOR EXAMPLE,
WHICH HAS ABOUT EIGHT PARCELS
UNDERNEATH IT.
A QUICK VERY PRELIMINARY
ESTIMATE IS THAT IT WOULD TAKE
FOUR HUNDRED OR FIVE HUNDRED
HOURS MINIMUM TO COMPLETE THE
SEARCHES FOR PARKS PROPERTY
ONLY WHICH MAY ONLY BE POSSIBLE
USING CITY ATTORNEYS.
CITY ATTORNEY OFFICE STAFF, A
CONSULTANT OR TITLE COMPANY AND
THAT COMPLETES THE STAFF
INTRODUCTION FOR THAT ITEM WE
DO.
NOAH'S ARK IS AVAILABLE
VIRTUALLY TO DISCUSS THE
EIGHTEEN
QUANSAH YES AUDIO WE
CAN USE YOU ARE AVAILABLE.
THANK.
MY NAME IS GLEN WAS WORK ON THE
ENGINEER AT THE WATER TREATMENT
PLANT.
>> I WILL BE INTRODUCING C8 AND
RESPONDING TO TWO QUESTIONS BY
WAY OF INTRODUCTION.
>> SORRY I THOUGHT YOU'D WANT
TO LOOK AT MY FACE MAYBE BY WAY
OF INTRODUCTION THIS RESOLUTION
REQUESTS ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT
FOR PITHIEST TREATMENT UPGRADES
AT THE WATER TREATMENT PLANT.
>> MORE SPECIFICALLY THE GRANT
PROGRAM IS CALLED THE
CONSOLIDATION AND CONTAMINATION
AND RISK REDUCTION GRANT
PROGRAM WHICH WILL BE
ADMINISTERED BY EGAL DEPARTMENT
OF ENVIRONMENT, GREAT LAKES AND
ENERGY.
>> THE GRANT AMOUNT IS FOUR
HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY TWO DOLLARS
TO WHICH WE ARE PROPOSING THE
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF TWO
FILTER UPGRADES TO STRENGTHEN
PEST REMOVAL PERFORMANCE.
THE TWO QUESTIONS PROPOSED TO
ME SEE EIGHTEEN QUESTION ONE IT
READS SINCE WE'RE REPLACING
ONLY TWO OF THE LOWER PROFILE
UNDER DRAINS I'M ASSUMING WE
STILL NEED TO EVENTUALLY FUND
THE REPLACEMENT OF THE 14 OTHER
UNDER DRAINS THAT NEED MORE
CLEARANCE TO MORE EFFICIENTLY
FILTER PIGFACE.
IN THE MEANTIME, HOW ARE WE
ADDRESSING THIS ISSUE?
ARE WE ACTUALLY RUNNING THE
WATER PLANT AT A LOWER CAPACITY
OR DO WE HAVE ANOTHER WAY TO
REMOVE THE P FAST RESPONSE TO
QUESTION ONE OUR CURRENT FLOWS
AT THE WATER PLANT ARE WELL
BELOW THE PLANT'S DESIGN
CAPACITY 50 MGD SO THE FILTERS
ARE OPERATING WELL BELOW THEIR
MAXIMUM CAPACITY BUT WE DON'T
WANT TO RESTRICT THE FLOW AS
DEMAND INCREASES OVER TIME.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
WE ARE MEETING ALL PYTHIAS
REGULATIONS UNDER ALL CURRENT
CONDITIONS WE ARE CONSTRUCTING
THESE TWO FILTERS TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE GRANT AND TO
VALIDATE PERFORMANCE PRIOR TO
INVESTING IN THE REMAINDER.
>> BUT DUE TO EXCESS CAPACITY
WE HAVE ADDITIONAL TIME.
WE WILL LIKELY BE INCORPORATING
THE REMAINDER REMAINING FILTERS
IN A FUTURE CAPITAL PROJECT.
>> I SEE EIGHTEEN QUESTION
NUMBER TWO WREATHES REGARDING
THE PROJECT BUDGET THE MEMO
SAYS ONE MILLION OF THE
REQUIRED ONE POINT TWO NINE ONE
MILLION DOLLARS FOR THIS
PROJECT IS INCLUDED IN THE
APPROVED FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FOUR WATER SUPPLY CAPITAL
BUDGET THAT GRANT IS PROVIDING
FOUR HUNDRED NINETY ONE
THOUSAND.
WHY DOES ANOTHER TWO HUNDRED
NINETY ONE THOUSAND NEED TO BE
APPROPRIATED WHEN IN THE SPRING
WHEN THIS GRANT BRING US TO ONE
MILLION FOUR HUNDRED NINETY ONE
THOUSAND AVAILABLE FUNDING?
>> THAT IS A LOT OF NUMBERS I
HAD SOME CONFUSION WITH IT.
>> I'M GOING TO START THE
EXPLANATION THIS WAY ONE
MILLION DOLLARS WAS PROGRAMED
AND APPROVED IN THE FISCAL YEAR
.
>> TWENTY FOUR WATER BUDGET THE
PROJECT TOTAL COST ESTIMATE HAS
BEEN DETERMINED TO BE ONE
MILLION TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY
ONE THOUSAND.
SO WE'RE LOOKING TO APPROPRIATE
THE DIFFERENCE WHICH IS THAT
ADDITIONAL TWO HUNDRED NINETY
ONE THOUSAND TO COVER THE
DIFFERENCE THE WATER FUND MUST
FUND THE FULL PROJECT COSTS.
THIS IS A FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
PRACTICE REQUIREMENT.
THE WATER FUND WILL BE
REIMBURSED THE FULL GRANT
AMOUNT OF FOUR HUNDRED NINETY
ONE THOUSAND WHEN IT BECOMES
AVAILABLE.
>> SO TO REITERATE THE TOTAL
PROJECT COST IS ONE MILLION TWO
HUNDRED NINETY ONE THOUSAND NOT
THE ONE MILLION FOUR HUNDRED
NINETY ONE THOUSAND IN THE
QUESTION.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
THE CONSENT AGENDA CORNELL AND
HARRISON FOR THE DISCUSSION,
THE CONSENT AGENDA I CALAMA
CORNELL I EIMEAR I ASK THAT
BASED ON MY ROLE AS THE BOARD
CHAIR OF THE COLLEGE'S CENTER
THAT I'D BE RECUSED I'M SORRY
NINETEEN THE CONFLICT
OF INTEREST AND THE COUNCIL
ETHICS RULES FOR WHICH PROVIDES
THE COUNCIL MEMBER MAY BE
EXCUSED IF SHE HAS A PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE MATTER
ISSUE THAT CREATES A SITUATION
WITH CONFLICTING FIDUCIARY
DUTIES.
>> PERHAPS WE WILL PULECIO
NINETEEN AND AND SEPARATE VOTE
FOR YOU THERE THAT MAKES SENSE
.
>> COUNCILMAN HARRISON, I JUST
WANT TO THANK THE STAFF FOR THE
WORK THAT THEY DID ON
ALLMENDINGER AND THE OTHER
RESEARCH THAT THEY DID ON THIS
I GROWING UP HERE IN ANN ARBOR
I SPENT A LOT OF TIME IN THE
ANN ARBOR PARKS AND YOU KNOW,
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE
UNCOVER THE RACIAL THESE
RACIALLY RESTRICTED COVENANTS.
THEY ARE CONTINUING TO CAUSE
HARM TO THE BLACK COMMUNITY,
THE BLACK AND BROWN COMMUNITY.
AND JUST I JUST WANT TO THANK
YOU ALL FOR FOR THE WORK THAT
WAS PUT INTO THIS FURTHER
DISCUSSION, THE CONSENT AGENDA
ALL IN FAVOR OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C
A NINETEEN PCI POST THAT COULD
SET THE AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION C A NINETEEN IS
APPROVED WITH NINE COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTING IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFIED
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO A THREE FOR
C A
SEVENTEEN EIGHTEEN TWELVE.
>> THANK YOU AND C A THIRTY.
>> YES C NINETEEN RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE FIRST AMENDED AND
RESTATED GENERAL SERVICES AGREE
WITH RECYCLING ARBITRARY FOR
OPERATION OF THE DROPOFFS MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
ELECTED BY COUNCILOR IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE NINETEEN.
I'VE HEARD A MOTION TO RECUSE
COUNCILOR MCCONNELL SAID
COUNCIL MEMBER DEANNE'S
DISCUSSION DENHA CARSKADON
DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION TO
RECUSE ON FAVOR POSED.
>> YOU ARE RECUSED FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF C A NINETEEN ON
FAVOR OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED NOT
SO FAST NO EXTRA BATHROOM BREAK
FOR YOU.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF A
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS BOTH
IN IN HOUSE AND ONLINE WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
IMPORTANCE TO AMEND SECTION TEN
ONE SEVEN SIX OF CHAPTER ONE
TWO SEVEN BICYCLIST OF ARTICLE
THREE IMPOUNDING OF TITLE TEN
TRAFFIC OF THE ANN ARBOR
CITY
CODE .
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK?
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
MAYOR, I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS
ON LINE FOR THIS HEARING
SEE NO
ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO REPEAL SECTION
EIGHT FIVE TO FIVE TO
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
SEE NO
ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
THREE AN AUDIENCE TO ADD
CHAPTER NINETY TWO YOU MEAN PET
ACQUISITION TO TITLE SEVEN
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY ANN
ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
PLEASE JUST ONE RUN UP
IN
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
>> MAYOR TAYLOR SENDS ITS FIRST
READING TWO WEEKS AGO DOZENS
OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS HAVE
REACHED OUT IN SUPPORT OF A
POTENTIAL HUMANE PET SALE
ORDINANCE IN THE CITY.
AS STATED IN THE FIRST READING,
THIS ORDINANCE IS NOT
UNPRECEDENTED AS HUNDREDS
OF OTHER CITIES ALONG WITH SOME
STATES HAVE SIMILAR
RESTRICTIONS ON THE SALE
OF ANIMALS.
THE MAIN PURPOSE OF THIS
ORDINANCE IS TO PROHIBIT
IRRESPONSIBLE SOURCING
OF ANIMALS FROM INHUMANE
FACILITIES AND TO ENCOURAGE PET
ACQUISITION DIRECTLY FROM
REPUTABLE BREEDERS OR OTHER
RESPONSIBLE SOURCES LIKE
SHELTERS AND RESCUES.
THESE ACTIONS ARE PROVEN TO
PROTECT CONSUMERS AND PROMOTE
HUMANE BUSINESS PRACTICES AND
CONTRIBUTE THE OVERALL HEALTH
OF PETS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
HOWEVER, I UNDERSTAND THIS HAS
BEEN MET WITH SOME OPPOSITION
FROM SOME LOBBYING GROUPS THAT
MAY SPEAK TONIGHT OR IN SOME
COUNCIL MEMBERS INBOXES OPPOSED
TO TAKING THIS THESE THREE
MINUTES TO TELL YOU A BUNCH
OF LEGISLATION THAT THESE
ORGANIZATIONS HAVE LOBBIED
AGAINST THAT WOULD IMPROVE THE
LIVES OF ANIMALS.
I WILL JUST LET YOU KNOW THAT
THESE ORGANIZATIONS HAVE THE
HEART OF THE COMMERCIAL PET
INDUSTRY AT HEART.
THEY WORK FROM A MONETARY BASIS
THEY DON'T CONSIDER ANIMAL
WELFARE AT THE SOURCE OF WHAT
THEY DO.
AND WITH THAT I HOPE ALL OF OUR
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS WILL MAKE
A DECISION THAT'S IN FAVOR
OF ANIMAL WELFARE AND NOT THIS
PET INDUSTRY.
PLUS ONE THAT HAS THE SUPPORT
OF OUR OWN COMMUNITY MEMBERS
THAT HAVE SPOKEN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
CAN I APPROACH OF COURSE BY ALL
MEANS HAVE SOME TO THE CLERK
PLEASE.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I'M BOB DARDEN.
I'M A THIRD WARD RESIDENT
OF BROOKLYN.
NO ONE CONDONES THE ANIMAL
ABUSE, SUBSTANDARD KENNELS,
IRRESPONSIBLE BREEDERS.
THIS ORDINANCE DOES NOT ADDRESS
THOSE ISSUES.
THAT BEING SAID, I HAVE
CONCERNS WITH THIS ORDINANCE
SEEMINGLY THE HUMANE PET
ACQUISITION ORDINANCE HAS BEEN
A WORK IN PROCESS FOR QUITE A
PERIOD OF TIME BEFORE WAS
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL LAST
SESSION AS THURSDAY WHEN I
VISITED SEVERAL PET SHOPS.
NOW THE STORE HAD HEARD OF THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE THE THREE
STORES VISITED THAT SELL LIVE
ANIMALS ARE ALL IMPACTED BY
THIS ORDINANCE.
THE POINT BEING ALL STAKEHOLDER
HOLDERS SHOULD HAVE BEEN
BROUGHT IN EARLY INTO THE
DISCUSSION NOT JUST THIS PAST
WEEK OR TWO.
THE ORDINANCE ERODES CONSUMER
PROTECTION UNDER MICHIGAN
CAMPAIGN LAW MCO TO EIGHT ONE
POINT THREE THREE FIVE A
SECTION FIVE PET STORES ARE
REQUIRED TO HAVE PET HEALTH
CARE CERTIFICATES VALID WITHIN
30 DAYS FROM THE SALE OF A DOG
OR CAT AT RETAIL SHELTERS DO
NOT HAVE THE SAME REQUIREMENT
THAT STORES ALSO HAVE
CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN FOR ALL
THEIR ANIMALS.
THE CONSUMER WILL KNOW WHAT
QUALIFIED BREEDER OR QUALIFIED
LICENSED KENNEL THE DOG OR CAT
CAME FROM THE ORDINANCE.
THE ORDINANCE SHRINKS CONSUMER
OPTIONS WITH THE GOAL
OF MATCHING FAMILIES LIFESTYLE
WITH THE DOG'S TEMPERAMENT
RANDOM SOURCE DOGS DO NOT
FULFILL THAT GOAL A TWENTY
SEVENTEEN STUDY BY THE ASPCA
AND AND THE STUDY BY THE
AMERICAN PET PRODUCTS
ASSOCIATION SHOWED THAT THREE
POINT THREE MILLION DOGS
ENTERED SHELTER.
MEANWHILE CLOSE TO NINE 90
MILLION PET DOGS ARE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THE AVERAGE LIFESPAN OF A DOG
IS 11 YEARS.
THE ANNUAL RATE OF DEATH
OF DOGS IS CLOSE TO NINE
MILLION PET DOGS A YEAR.
THE ORDINANCE PLAN IS
UNSUSTAINABLE OVER THE PAST
SEVERAL YEARS SHORT TERM
INTAKES HAVE BEEN GOING DOWN,
DEMAND FOR DOGS HAVE BEEN GOING
UP AND MSU STUDY SHOWED THAT
THE PROPORTION OF HOUSEHOLDS
OWNING DOGS IS EXPECTED TO GROW
FROM THIRTY EIGHT PERCENT
OF ALL US HOUSEHOLDS TO FORTY
FIVE PERCENT IN TWENTY THIRTY
SHELTERS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
COME CLOSE TO THE CLOSE TO SIX
MILLION DOG GAP BETWEEN SHELTER
INTAKE GETTING A NEW FAMILY DOG
AND GROWING DEMAND FOR DOGS.
EVEN NOW SOME SHELTERS ARE
IMPORTANT DOGS FROM OUT
OF STATE FOR THEIR KENNELS TO
GET IT.
THANK YOU.
OK
, THANK YOU SO MUCH
ANTHONY HILL ENDOR FROM THE CEO
OF THE HUMANE SOCIETY
OF HEARING BELLY AND LONG TIME
AND OUR RESIDENT I'M HERE TO
GIVE OUR ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT
AND GRATITUDE FOR THIS
ORDINANCE TO BAN INHUMANE PET
RETAIL SALES IN INDIAN HARBOR.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY AN
ESTIMATED 10000 PUPPY MILLS
OPERATING IN THE UNITED STATES
CONFINING ROUGHLY FIVE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOGS SOLELY FOR
BREEDING NEARLY ALL PET STORES
AND ONLINE DEALERS GET THEIR
PUPPIES FROM MILLS NOTORIOUS
FOR ABUSE AND NEGLECT.
THE LESS WELL KNOWN THIS IS
ALSO TRUE FOR KITTENS AND OTHER
ANIMALS SOLD AS PETS THOUGH
MANY MILLS ARE UNLICENSED EVEN
IF LICENSED REGULATIONS ARE
WOEFULLY LACKING IN MINIMALLY
ENFORCED THE RULES AROUND
COMMERCIAL BREEDING ARE ALMOST
60 YEARS OLD AND DON'T ADDRESS
WHAT WE NOW KNOW TODAY
SCIENTIFICALLY ABOUT WHAT
ANIMALS NEED MENTALLY AND
PHYSICALLY WHETHER THEY ENSURE
JUST ENOUGH TO KEEP THE ANIMAL
ALIVE IN THEIR MISSOURI ANIMALS
KEPTIN MALES ARE TREATED AS
COMMODITIES IN THEIR MOST BASIC
NEEDS FOOD MEDICAL CARE ARE
DENIED TO INCREASE PROFIT
MARGINS IN PUPPY MILLS.
MOTHER AND FATHER DOG SPEND
THEIR ENTIRE LIVES IN SMALL
STACKED WIRE BOTTOM CAGES
REQUIRED TO JUST BE SIX INCHES
LARGER THAN THEIR ACTUAL BODIES
THEIR ENTIRE LIVES THEY NEVER
PAY GO FOR A WALK OR SNUGGLE
WITH A FAMILY.
MOTHERS ARE FORCED TO LIVE TO
HAVE LITTER AFTER LITTER UNTIL
THEIR BODIES ARE SENT AND THEY
ARE KILLED IN CHEAP AND VIOLENT
WAYS.
MEANWHILE, MICHIGAN STORES GO
100 PERCENT UNREGULATED IN TWO
THOUSAND EIGHTY EIGHT NINETEEN
EIGHTY EIGHT TO BE INVESTIGATED
BY LOCAL PET STORE THAT AMONG
MANY VIOLATIONS LETS SICK
PUPPIES DIE IN A BACK ROOM
WITHOUT ANY THAT CARE AND JUST
LET THEIR BODIES THEIR THEIR
PUPPIES CAME FROM THE HILLSDALE
PUPPY MILL THAT WAS ALSO
INVESTIGATED BY THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
BOTH OPERATIONS CONTINUE TO
THRIVE TODAY BECAUSE
OF ABSURDLY MILD PENALTIES AND
UNSUSPECTING CONSUMERS.
OF COURSE WE PREFER THAT
FAMILIES ADOPT A HOMELESS
ANIMAL AND HELP SAVE A LIFE.
BUT WHEN THAT CAN'T HAPPEN WE
ASK THAT CONSUMERS GO DIRECTLY
TO SMALL FAMILY RESPONSIBLE
BREEDERS WITH GOOD LIVING
CONDITIONS CAN BE VERIFIED IN
PERSON PET STORES AND ONLINE
DEALERS ARE THE LIFEBLOOD THAT
KEEP PUPPY MILLS ALIVE UNTIL WE
HAVE FEDERAL ACTION LIKE WE SAW
IN THE UK ORDINANCES LIKE THIS
OR AN EFFECTIVE IMPORTANT STEP
FORWARD TO STEMMING THIS
INTENSE AND SYSTEMIC CRUELTY.
THANK YOU TO COUNCIL MEMBER
AKMAN AND ALL COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERING THIS COMPASSIONATE
AND FORWARD THINKING PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
JUST COME ON UP.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S A RULE
THAT YOU ALREADY SPOKE.
>> NO, I WAS NOT PLANNING ON
SPEAKING ON THIS.
I FEEL LIKE I'D BE REMISS NOT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT WE'RE
HAVING A CONVERSATION AROUND
ANIMAL LIFE IN A CITY WHERE
ANIMALS ARE SPENDING UPWARDS
OF TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH
TO LIVE IN RADICALLY SMALL
SPACES.
AND I WANT TO ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE AVERAGE AMERICAN
CONSUMES OVER TWO HUNDRED
POUNDS
OF ANIMAL FLESH A YEAR
ON AVERAGE.
AND I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THE DISPARITY BETWEEN WHAT FOR
SOME OF US FEELS SO OBVIOUS TO
ACKNOWLEDGE ANIMAL SUFFERING IS
BECAUSE WE DON'T HONOR THE
ANIMAL SUFFERING GOING ON IN
OUR OWN BODIES AND IN THE
BODIES OF OUR PEERS AND OUR
NEIGHBORS.
AND SO THAT TRICKLES DOWNWARD
TO ANIMALS.
AND I THINK THIS IS A LARGER
CONVERSATION ABOUT MENTAL
HEALTH AND THIS IS THE LAST
THING I'LL SAY YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT MORE PEOPLE RUNNING DOGS,
PEOPLE I LIKE THE THOUSANDS
OF BABIES UNDER THE AGE OF ONE
WHO HAVE ANTIDEPRESSANT
PRESCRIPTIONS.
AND SO I THINK IS A LARGER
MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS THAT
REQUIRES RADICAL RADICAL
RADICAL VULNERABILITY AND
AUTHENTICITY AND NEUTRAL THIRD
SPACE.
I THINK THIS IS A CRY FOR THE
CITY TO ADOPT 10000 PETS AND
CREATE SOME NOOTROPICS SPACES
FOR US ALL TO COME TOGETHER AND
PET CATS AND TALK ABOUT BINARY
THINGS THAT DIVIDE US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING WHERE WE DO HAVE
A CALLER ONLINE CALL HER THE
PHONE NUMBER AND ENDING AN
EIGHT FIVE THREE STAR SIX AT
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
I'M A LOCAL AND I'M A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE HUMANE SOCIETY.
I CAN'T DO MUCH BETTER THAN
WHAT CAN YOU HEAR THEM TALK IT
INTO PART OF THIS AUDIENCE?
THERE ARE HUNDREDS OF CITIES
ACROSS THE UNITED WHO HAVE
TAKEN THIS STEP TO TRY AND
STAMP OUT PUPPY MILLS AND A FEW
STATES AND I THINK IT'S HIGH
TIME THAT ANN ARBOR DOES SO WE
HAVE PUT THAT IN THE AREA
SPECIFICALLY YPSILANTI THAT
HAVE BEEN A PROBLEM THAT HAVE
USED PUPPY MILLS THAT HAVE
ABUSED THEIR ANIMALS AND THAT
WOULD SIMPLY PREVENT ANOTHER
FROM GOING DOWN THAT ROAD.
SO I STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS
ORDINANCE AND I THANK THE
COUNCIL FOR ITS ATTENTION.
THANK YOU
OVER THE PHONE NUMBER
AND AGAIN ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR
STAR SIX I MEAN YOUR PHONE
AND
I WONDER WHETHER I AM THE
CURRENT RESIDENT OF FRANKLIN,
MICHIGAN BUT I'M A LIFETIME
RESIDENT OF MICHIGAN JUST
WANTED TO CALL AND EXPRESS MY
SUPPORT AND ENCOURAGE THE
COUNCIL TO PASS THE BURDEN ON
SOMEONE WHO IS VERY ACTIVE IN
THE ANIMAL RESCUE COMMUNITY.
I'VE HAD PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
CARING FOR THAT COME FROM PUPPY
MILLS THAT HAD BEEN INTENDED TO
BE SOLD AT PET STORES AND SAID
THESE DOGS ARE EITHER AGED OUT
OF THEIR CUTE FACE OR A FEMALE
DOG WERE NO LONGER VALUABLE
BECAUSE THEY COULDN'T HAVE ANY
MORE LITTER THAN MOST OF THEIR
LIFE FILLED WITH FEAR EVEN
AFTER SPENDING MONTHS IN FOSTER
HOMES, THEY'RE TYPICALLY
EXTREMELY ANXIOUS.
THERE MAY BE NO CORRECTING
THAT.
AND JUST TO BE CLEAR, THERE IS
NO REPUTABLE FOR BREEDERS THAT
WILL SELL THEIR DOGS TO PET
STORES.
WE'VE TALKED TO JUST HUNDREDS
OF THEM.
THEY DEAL WITH THE FAMILIES
DIRECTLY SO THERE'S NO RECORD
IN NO WAY STOP REPUTABLE
BREEDERS FROM SELLING THEIR
DOGS TO FAMILIES SO FAMILIES
ARE STILL ABLE TO GET DOGS
DIRECTLY FROM BREEDERS IF
THERE'S A SPECIFIC BREEDS THAT
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> AND THEN IN ADDITION TO THE
PROBLEMS SURROUNDING THE PUPPY
MILL PIPELINE INSTORE STORES
REALLY LACK THE PROPER PROPER
LIVING CONDITIONS FOR ALMOST
ALL SPECIES.
OVERCROWDED SMALL LIVING SPACES
ARE NECESSARY TO SHOW ANIMALS
TO CONSUMERS BUT IT'S REALLY
NOT ADEQUATE FOR ANY ANIMAL TO
THRIVE.
THAT'S NOT ONLY TRUE FOR DOGS
AND CATS BUT IT ALSO INCLUDES
BIRDS, RABBITS AND REPTILES AND
SO THAT'S IMPORTANT.
THIS ORDINANCE IS VERY
IMPORTANT NOT ONLY TO PROTECT
THESE VOICELESS ANIMALS BUT TO
OFFER PROTECT THE PUBLIC.
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME
CONSIDERATION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HOWEVER THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN TWO NINE EIGHT DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
>> HELLO MY COMING THROUGH.
>> YES YOU ARE.
HELLO.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND MAYOR FOR
SPEECH TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS STROGOFF.
I AM PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED
PEOPLE ACTUALLY CALLING TO
OPPOSE THIS AUDIT AND I
CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
IS A COMPLEX SITUATION.
SO I'M GOING TO ASK THAT YOU
THINK ABOUT SOME QUESTIONS AND
ONE IS THE IMPETUS FOR THIS AND
WHETHER ANY THOUGHTS THAT OUR
PROBLEMS IN ANN HARBOR AND I
WOULD HOPE THAT THE COUNCIL
KNOW YOU THINK ABOUT THE
PUNISHMENT AND FOCUS ON BAD
ACTORS AND PEOPLE IN STORES WHO
ARE PROBLEMS.
YOU KNOW, I HATE TO SEE THESE
THINGS WHEN SOMEONE COULD BE
DOING IT RIGHT.
>> I WORKED FOR A PET STORE IN
COLLEGE.
I TRAINED HUNDREDS OF DOG CAT
TOENAILS.
WE REMAIN MAINLY A GROOMING
BUSINESS BUT OCCASIONALLY WE
SELL PUPPIES AND WE SOCIALIZE
THOSE PUPPIES THAT VETERINARY
TECHNICIAN NUMEROUS TIMES I
SPEND AN HOUR OR TWO WITH
PEOPLE WHO WOULD COME IN CRYING
BECAUSE THEIR VETERINARIAN
WOULD NOT SPEND ENOUGH TIME
WITH THEM TO GO OVER COMMON PET
NUTRITION FACTS WITH THEM AND
IF THEY JUST WANTED TO
PRESCRIBE MEDICATIONS OVER TIME
OVER A HUNDRED UNHEALTHY
PUPPIES AND HEALTHY PUPPIES AND
THIS WAS A LEGITIMATE PET SHOP
OWNER.
WE DID A GREAT JOB FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND WITH ANIMALS AND
SOMETHING LIKE THIS WOULD HAVE
PUT HER OUT OF BUSINESS AND
IT'S JUST A SHAME TO SEE THAT
HAPPEN.
OUR PUPPIES ALL CAME FROM VERY
SMALL BREEDERS WHO WERE
LOCALLY.
THEY WERE ALL LOCALLY SOURCED
AND AGAIN THIS WILL PUSH HER
OUT OF BUSINESS AND THERE ARE A
LOT OF MICHIGAN LAWS INCLUDING
CHAPTER SEVEN CITY CHAPTERS
NINE AND TWENTY FIVE OF CHAPTER
SEVEN.
>> FIFTY IT ADDRESS PAIN AND
SUFFERING DUTY TO PROVIDE
ANIMAL CRUELTY AND MORE SO
HOPEFULLY THOSE COULD BE IN
PLACE REGARDING REPTILES.
EVERY ANIMAL COMING INTO THE
STATE REQUIRES A USFDA A
VETERINARIAN CERTIFICATE
INSPECTION SO THAT WHEN YOUR
REPTILES AND AGAIN I WOULD HOPE
THAT WETHERINGTON WITH A BROAD
BRUSH YOU ACTUALLY LOOK AT
PEOPLE WHO WERE PROBLEMS
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE ALWAYS GOING
TO HAVE PETS AND YOU'RE TAKING
AWAY THE MOST PUBLIC AND
HEAVILY REGULATED POSSIBILITY
FOR THEM TO GET THOSE PETS AND
WHO KNOWS WHERE THEY MAY GET
THEIR PETS FROM.
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT YOU WOULD
ALLOW RESPONSIBLE PET STORES TO
STAY IN BUSINESS IN ANN ARBOR
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE HANDS
.
SENO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO FOR AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF ONE
POINT TWO ACRES FROM AIR FORCE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL TO PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT SEVEN TO ONE S FOREST
PUDI ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO LIKE TO
SPEAK THIS PUBLIC HEARING OR
I'M WITH JP MORGAN ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTS HERE REPRESENTING
SUBTEXT THE DEVELOPER FOR THE
PROJECT.
I WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND THAT
THE COUNCIL FOLLOW THE
RECOMMENDATION OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ONE THAT CAME WITH A
SIGNIFICANT MAJORITY TO REZONE
THIS PROPERTY SO THAT THE SITE
PLAN COULD BE APPROVED THERE.
REZONING WILL PROVIDE FOR THE
REUSE OF AN EXISTING
UNDERUTILIZED PARCEL AND
REDEVELOPMENT OF AN ANTIQUATED
BUILDING HIGHER THE ENERGY
INEFFICIENT BUILDING IS
CURRENTLY CONSISTENT WITH CITY
POLICIES TO FIND MORE WAYS
OF ACCOMMODATING AND MORE IN
OUR RESIDENTS REZONING WILL
PROVIDE FOR THE REDEVELOPMENT
THE PARCEL WITH AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING AND ALL ELECTRIC
HIGH-RISE FIRST ONE THE CITY
THAT IS ALSO CONSISTENT WITH
THE CURRENT CITY DESIRES FOR
MORE ALL ELECTRIC PROJECTS THIS
WHILE PROTECTING A SIGNIFICANT
NATURAL FEATURE WHICH IS THE
URBAN FOREST FRAGMENT WHICH IS
A NORTH ADJACENT TO OUR SITE.
THE REZONING THE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL WILL ALSO ACCRUE
SIGNIFICANT PUBLIC BENEFITS.
>> IF YOU HAVE A LIST OF THE
DESIGNATED PUBLIC BENEFITS FOR
THE PROJECT AMONG THESE WILL BE
THE INCREASE IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THROUGH BOTH REQUIRED
AND VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO
PROGRAMS TO PROVIDE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE CITY I HAVE WITH
MY OTHER TEAM MEMBERS AND WE
CAN ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
BENET'S I AM
OUTCASTING I HAVE LIVED AT
THIRTEEN TWENTY ONE FOR AS
COURTROOM FOR FORTY YEARS.
I AM STRENUOUSLY OPPOSED TO THE
APPLICATION PUDI PROJECT AT
SEVEN TWENTY ONE S FOREST I
STRONGLY KOWALSKI AND THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF TO
REJECT THIS PROJECT, THE
PROPOSED LUXURY STUDENT
APARTMENT BUILDING IS TOTALLY
INCONSISTENT WITH THE ZONING
OF THIS SIDE OF THE LAND USE
CLAUSE OF THE CITY'S MASTER
PLAN THAT SIGNIFICANTLY EXCEEDS
ANY DENSITY IN BUILDING SITES
PERMITTED FOR THIS ZONING
DISTRICT AND DISREGARDS THE
EXISTING BUILDINGS AROUND IT ON
AN ADJACENT TO FOREST BETWEEN
FOREST COURT AND HILL, A
DIVERSE AND PLEASANT AREA
OF WELL MAINTAINED RESIDENCES,
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS,
FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES
AND A CHILD CARE CENTER.
IT CONTRAVENES
A CENTRAL AREA
OF LAND USE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT SEEK TO ENCOURAGE
APPROPRIATE DEVELOPMENT AND
TRANSITION TRANSITIONS AND TO
PROTECT THE EXISTING CHARACTER
OF NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS PROJECT DOES NONE OF THIS.
UNLIKE THE RECENTLY CONSTRUCTED
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS THAT
727 SOUTH FOREST AND ADJACENT
TO 13 15 HILL AS WELL AS THE
TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S HOUSE.
THE PROPOSAL IS IN COMPLETE
VIOLATION AND MAKES A MOCKERY
OF THE ZONING CREATED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL AND RECENT PAST
ESTABLISHING D1 AND D2 ZONES
WITH TRANSITIONAL STEP TERMS TO
PRESERVE THE CHARACTER AND
INTEGRITY OF THE RNC AREA
SURROUNDING IT SEEKS TO DO VIA
PUDI WITH THE MASTERS WHAT THE
ESTABLISHMENT WILL NOT ALLOW
IGNORES THE CITY MASTER PLAN
AND CENTRAL AREA PLANS FOR THIS
PUDI IS NOT HOW CITY PLANNING
IS DONE NOR SHOULD IT BE REMADE
THROUGH A SINGLE SINGLE SITE
SPOT ZONING LIKE THIS.
THIS IS PRECISELY THE ONLY
PURPOSE OF THIS REQUEST RAPIDES
FOR THIS PROJECT TO CIRCUMVENT
THE EXISTING ZONING OF THIS
SITE.
I STRONGLY URGE YOU TO REJECT
THIS PARDEEP PROPOSAL THAT IS
IN TOTAL VIOLATION OF THE
ZONING AND OF THE PURPOSES
OF THE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
APPROVAL ONLY OPEN THE WAY FOR
OTHER SUCH PUDI PROPOSALS IN
THE ARMED FORCES OWNED AREA
BETWEEN WILLARD AND HILL AND
BEYOND.
NO DOUBT I COULD SUPPORT A
NEWER APARTMENT BUILDING
OF SIMILAR SIZE TO THE CURRENT
ONE ON THIS SITE.
IF THIS ONE IS ANTIQUATED I
WOULD ENCOURAGE THAT IT REQUIRE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THIS
BUILDING NOT JUST A ONE TIME
FEE ARE STILL D1 AND D2 PARCELS
ON SAORVIEW HORNCHURCH AND
WILLARD THAT HAVE NOT BEEN
DEVELOPED INTO STUDENT
HIGH-RISE HOUSING.
THEY'RE STILL THERE.
THEY'RE STILL AVAILABLE.
THERE'S ALL OF THE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR TO CUONZO REZONING
THAT YOU'VE PASSED AND THAT IS
SPEED BEING SPEEDED ALONG AND
HAS NOT YET BEEN SUBJECT TO
DENSE DEVELOPMENT.
WHAT'S THE RUSH IN THIS CASE TO
UNDERMINE A FUNCTIONING AND
PLEASANT NEIGHBORHOOD A
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE I LIVE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO HELLO AGAIN.
WHAT ONE?
I SPOKE IN FAVOR OF THIS
REZONING AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF IT HERE TONIGHT.
THE SITE IS IMMEDIATELY NEXT
DOOR TO ANOTHER PREVIOUSLY
CONTENTIOUS HIGH DENSITY
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL FOREST
PLAZA WHICH NEARLY ONE HUNDRED
YEARS GO WAS ORIGINALLY
PROPOSED AS A LUXURY NINE
STOREY BUILDING ON THE STREET.
THIS PROPOSAL TONIGHT ANTI
DEVELOPMENT BACKLASH FORCING
THE REDUCTION OF A BUILDING TO
FOUR STORY BY FOUR STORIES AND
FORCING THE BUILDING BACK FROM
THE EDGE OF THE LOT AND ALSO
LED TO FURTHER RESTRICTIONS AND
ZONING ORDINANCE THAT LIMITED
DENSE DEVELOPMENT NEAR CAMPUS
ONE OF A FEW SERIES OF BACKLASH
THAT HAPPENED THROUGH THE
HISTORY OF THE CITY THAT HAS
LIMITED HOUSING.
PUDI IS A SYMPTOM OF A PROBLEM
THAT WE BEGAN CREATING FOR
OURSELVES A HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
WE HAVE HAD THE GOOD FORTUNE TO
LIVE IN A CITY THAT IS HOME TO
ONE OF THE PREMIER PUBLIC
UNIVERSITIES ON THE PLANET
CREATED AND SUPPORTED BY THE
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
.
THAT SIGNIFICANT PUBLIC
INVESTMENT CREATES A NATURAL
DEMAND FOR HOUSING AS CLOSELY
AS POSSIBLE TO CAMPUS.
THIS WAS TRUE ONE HUNDRED YEARS
AGO AND IT REMAINS TRUE TODAY.
OUR EFFORTS TO LIMIT THE
ABILITY TO BUILD AND TO MEET
THIS DEMAND HAS CREATED THE
REALITY THAT WE LIVE IN NOW
WITH SCARCE, EXPENSIVE, OFTEN
EXTREMELY LOW QUALITY HOUSING
TO ANYONE WHO WANTS TO LIVE IN
OUR CITY.
IF WE HAD ALLOWED MANY HOUSES
AS ORIGINALLY PROPOSED ONE
HUNDRED YEARS AGO WE WOULD HAVE
AVOIDED TAKING OUR HOUSES
HOUSING YET DEEPER WAITING FOR
THE YEARS UP TO SUBSTANTIAL NEW
HOUSING FOR OUR SUBJECTIVE
PREFERENCES OR TO REACH GOALS I
CAN PRACTICALLY ACTUALLY BE
REALIZED RIGHT NOW I WILL
CONTRIBUTE TO HISTORY
OF EXCLUSION, CONTRIBUTE TO THE
ONGOING CASE OF HOUSING
SCARCITY.
SO I PLEASE ENCOURAGE YOU TO
APPROVE THIS PROPOSAL TONIGHT
AND I DID DESCRIBE THIS IS A
SYMPTOM OF OTHER BEAUTIES
COMING IN THE SAME AREA.
I AGREE WITH THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKER REPUBLICANS IN THIS AND
IT'S A SYMPTOM THAT SOMETHING
IS WRONG.
I STILL THINK WE SHOULD APPROVE
IT BECAUSE A HOUSING SITUATION
IS DESPERATE.
BUT I THINK WE REALLY NEED TO
BE RETHINKING OUR ZONING MUCH
MORE BROADLY BUT WE DON'T HAVE
TIME TO WAIT FIVE YEARS FOR A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN RIGHT WHEN
INTEREST RATES JUST TO PROVIDE
HOUSING FOR THE PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO LIVE HERE NOW AND WE KNOW
DOWNTOWN NOTHING NEW REALLY HAS
BEEN BUILT OR APPROVED SINCE
THE RECENT ORDINANCE TAKES A
FEW YEARS AGO.
WE'VE PUT WE'VE ALL KINDS
OF BARRIERS.
WE HAVE UNWRITTEN RULE BOOK
THAT WE HAVE PLANNING
PERMISSION OVER AND OVER AGAIN
OF THINGS WE'D LIKE TO SEE THAT
THAT REJECTIONS YOU KNOW, ALL
OF WHICH ARE GOALS I THINK WE
ALL SHARE BUT WE'RE NOT GETTING
WHAT WE WANT USING THE TOOLS
WE'VE BEEN USING FOREVER.
AND SO I THINK IF WE WANT TO
ACTUALLY GET THERE WE NEED TO
START TAKING A LITTLE RISK
ALLOWING SOME THINGS TO HAPPEN
AND ACTUALLY LETTING PEOPLE
MEET THE DEMANDS IS THERE.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR LISTENING TO US.
I'M ELLEN RAMSBURG AND I LIVE
AT FIFTY THREE CAMBRIDGE ROAD.
I'D LOVE TO REFUTE WHAT MR.
TRUDEAU JUST SAID.
IF YOU LOOK AROUND DOWNTOWN AND
IF YOU LOOK AROUND SOUTH
UNIVERSITY THERE IS TONS OF NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
WE HAVE NOT BEEN SLOW TO
DEVELOP RECENTLY.
FIRST OF ALL I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL CONSIDER THESE THINGS WHEN
YOU CONSIDER GRANTING PUDI
STATUS HERE YOU'RE PLANNING
STAFF AND YOUR OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY BOTH REPORTS
THAT ASKED YOU TO ANALYZE THE
APPROVAL OF THE OF THE PD.
THIS SHOULD GIVE YOU PAUSE.
YOU HAVE TO YOU HAVE EXPERTS ON
YOUR STAFF WHO ARE SAYING THIS
IS NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
FOR PUDI.
THERE ARE REPORTS OF WELL
SUBSTANTIATED AND THEY GIVE
AMPLE REASON OF WHY THIS DOES
NOT HAVE THE PUBLIC BENEFIT.
PAPAJI, ANY PROPOSAL TO
CIRCUMVENT AN EXISTING ZONING
BY USE THE BODY SHOULD GIVE YOU
PAUSE SHOULD MAKE YOU THINK
ABOUT THE PLANNING PROCESS AND
WHETHER IT'S A VALUABLE TOOL
FOR A CITY TO USE THESE
COMMENTS CAME UP IN THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
A PLANNING COMMISSIONER WAS
ASKED ASKED THE COMMISSIONER
ASKED THE DEVELOPER IF PERHAPS
A CHANGE OF ZONING WOULD BE
MORE AMENABLE TO THE KIND
OF DEVELOPMENT THAT HE WAS
PROPOSING AND THE REPLY WAS IT
TOOK TOO LONG TO DO THAT.
THUS THE RESORT TO A SPEEDY
ALTERNATIVE A POD THAT
CIRCUMVENTS THE ZONING THAT
DOES NOT TAKE INTO
CONSIDERATION THE NEIGHBORHOOD
OR WHAT THE LONG TERM PLAN FOR
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IS.
ANOTHER COMMISSIONER SAID IF
NOT HERE WE'RE WELL IN WITHIN
WALKING DISTANCE OF THAT SITE
OR SOME EMPTY LOTS.
THERE IS AN EMPTY LOT AT
WASHTENAW AN OBSERVATORY.
THERE'S AN EMPTY THERE'S
SOMETHING THAT'S BEING USED AS
A PARKING PLACE ACROSS
WASHTENAW.
THERE ARE ALTERNATIVE SITES
THAT DON'T REQUIRE REMOVING A
RELATIVELY AFFORDABLE STUDENT
APARTMENT BUILDING AND PUTTING
IN SOMETHING THAT WILL BE BOTH
DISREGARDING THE NATURE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WILL NOT BE
MORE AFFORDABLE.
SO NOT AS NOT SUSTAINABLE, NOT
AFFORDABLE, NOT A PUBLIC
BENEFIT.
PLEASE THINK ABOUT THESE THINGS
WE ARE ABOUT TO EMBARK ON A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND SO
SHOULDN'T WE TAKE THAT TAKE THE
SLOW STEP SORRY BUT I THINK
THAT IN THE LONG RUN THE SLOW
STEP LOOKING AT A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS A BETTER IDEA.
I URGE YOU TO CONSIDER FACTORS
BEYOND ADDING DENSITY.
ONE COMMISSIONER ONE PLANNING
COMMISSION INDICATED THAT HE
DID NOT SEE THAT THIS WAS A
NEIGHBORHOOD WORTH PRESERVING.
>> IT IS IN FACT THE VERY
DEFINITION OF A SUSTAINABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> OK NEIGHBORHOOD WORTH
PRESERVING IS EXACTLY MY
CONCERN HERE.
MY NAME IS ELEANOR LIN.
I LIVE AT THIRTEEN TWENTY ONE
FOREST COURT.
IT'S AN OAK SHADED DEAD END
STREET OF ONE OF OUR FOUR
HOUSES WITH A PEDESTRIAN PASS
THROUGH FROM FOREST AVENUE TO
THE BACK THE FIRST PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH AND WASHTENAW.
IT'S A LOVELY CALM PLACE TO
LIVE LOCATED TO PARCEL'S NORTH
OF THE PROPOSED PUDI IN OTHER
WORDS IT LIES BETWEEN THE
CASTLE IN QUESTION AND THE MORE
DENSELY DEVELOPED BUILDINGS AND
SOUTH UNIVERSITY THIS PROJECT
IS OUT OF SCALE WITH ITS
SURROUNDINGS FAR TALLER AND
DENSER THAN ITS ZONING PERMITS.
IT MAKES A FARCE OUT OF OUR
CITY ZONING REGULATIONS AND
RECENT ATTEMPTS TO STEER HIGH
DENSITY BUILDINGS INTO THE D
ONE ZONE AND ALONG TRANSIT
CORRIDORS SMALL RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS ARE NOW AT RISK TO BE
OVERPOWERED BY THESE BEHEMOTHS
OF OUR SCALE BUILDINGS BLOCK
OUR AIR AND LIFE.
THEY REFLECT THE SUN'S HEAT IN
THE SUMMER TIME, WEAKEN AND
KILL NATIVE PLANTS AND CAUSE
DESTRUCTIVE WIND SHEARS SHORTLY
AFTER THE NINETEEN STOREY
LANDMARK WAS BUILT NORTH
OF FORESTS CAUGHT AT LEAST
THREE HERITAGE TREES DIED FROM
THE STRESS.
SEVERAL BIRDS AND SMALL MAMMALS
LEFT THE AREA AND A YOUNG MAN
WAS NEARLY KILLED BY A WIND
SHEAR SHEAR THAT HIT THE BAY
WINDOW OF HIS HOUSE AS HE SAT
IN HIS LIVING ROOM
.
THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT DOES
NOT RECOMMEND THIS PROJECT.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WAS
DIVIDED IN ITS OPINION ON THE
FIRST MEETING READING YOU WERE
MOSTLY SILENT.
NOW I APPEAL TO YOU THE FINAL
ARBITERS OF THIS DECISION DO
NOT PERMIT SUCH A LARGE
BUILDING TO GO UP AT THIS
LOCATION.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JENNIFER BIER'S.
I'M THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
BETA HOUSE CORP BOARD.
WE OWN AND OPERATE THE SORORITY
HOUSE ALPHA DELTA PI AT SEVEN
TWENTY TWO S FOR US WHICH
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
THANK FIGHT OPPORTUNITY TO
SHARE OUR ORGANIZATION'S
DISAPPOINTMENT WITH THE
PROPOSAL DEVELOPMENT AT SEVEN
TWENTY ONE S FOREST.
OUR ORGANIZATION HAS OWNED THIS
HOME SINCE NINETEEN THIRTY
THREE AND WE FEEL ADDS TO THE
HISTORIC NATURE OF THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND THE NEARBY
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE STRIVE TO MAINTAIN THE HOMES
CHARM AND CHARACTER WHILE
KEEPING UP WITH TODAY'S
REQUIREMENTS OF COLLEGE
STUDENTS LIKE WI FI THAT
SUPERFAST RIGHT.
AND INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH, YOU
KNOW I THINK WE FEEL HONORED TO
BE IN THEIR HOME THAT WAS
ACTUALLY HONORED TONIGHT
BECAUSE WE FEEL VERY PROUD
OF OUR HOME AND THE
ARCHITECTURE OF IT.
WE'RE DEFINITELY SYMPATHETIC TO
THE ISSUES THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT WOULD HELP TO
RESOLVE IN ANN ARBOR INCLUDING
THE HOUSING CRISIS.
WE SEE IT WITH OUR MEMBERS WHO
LOOK TO MOVE OUT OF OUR HOME
AND LIVE SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE
CITY AND IT'S HARD TO FIND THAT
AND THERE'S A LOT OF ATTENTION
TO SECURE SOMETHING EARLY.
WE KNOW WE'RE A PRIME LOCATION
THAT AREA WE'RE CLOSE OBVIOUSLY
TO CAMPUS AND MANY AMENITIES
ALONG WITH UNIVERSITY AND WE
AGREE THAT SOMETHING NEEDS TO
BE DONE FOR THE STUDENTS AS
WELL AS OTHER RESIDENTS IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
BUT WE DO HAVE SEVERAL CONCERNS
THE LARGE FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING AND ITS HEIGHT WILL
INFRINGE UPON THE NEIGHBORING
HOMES AND APARTMENTS.
YES, IT'S ONLY A FEW BUILDINGS
AWAY FROM THE TALLER STRUCTURES
ON SITE WITH YOU BUT IT WILL
TOWER OVER PROPERTIES DIRECTLY
NORTH, SOUTH, EAST AND WEST
INCLUDING OUR HOME.
WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
IMPACT OF TRAFFIC FLOW AND
PARKING IN THE AREA.
WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THE IMPACT
TO THE TREES AND THE GREEN
SPACE, THE AREAS OTHERS HAVE
SAID WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
ESTHETIC OF THE BUILDING AS IT
SITS LESS THAN A BLOCK FROM THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT LIKE I
MENTIONED AND YOU KNOW THAT
ACROSS FROM OUR HOME THAT WE
FEEL IS CHARMING IN OLD AND
CURIOUS CARRIES ITS OWN PROUD
HISTORY.
WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT HOW THIS
DEVELOPMENT WILL IMPACT FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT ON THE BLOCK.
IT'S YOU KNOW, I THINK OTHERS
HAVE SAID THIS IT SEEMS LIKE IT
COULD BE THE FIRST OF MANY IN
OUR AREA OR AROUND ANN ARBOR
AND WE KNOW THERE'S SOMETHING
ACTUALLY IN THE WORKS RIGHT
BEHIND US CHURCH STREET OR
ANOTHER HIGH RISE APARTMENT
BUILDING FOR RESIDENTS.
WE REALIZE THAT THIS RESOLUTION
FOR THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
WILL LIKELY PASS FOR MANY
REASONS IN THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETINGS WE HEARD
THERE'S A STRONG DESIRE TO MOVE
FORWARD FOR MANY MEMBERS AS
MANY CITIZENS AGAIN TO SOLVE
THE HOUSING CRISIS IN ANN ARBOR
AND WE HEARD THAT YOU MAY NEED
TO START SOMEWHERE SO WE ASK
THAT YOU CONSIDER OUR
DISAPPOINTMENT IN THIS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI, MY NAME IS LINDA
ALGERNON'S.
I'M ALSO FROM APPLE ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY THAT OWNS THE HOUSE
AT SEVEN TWENTY TWO SOUTH
FOREST.
WE HAVE SENT YOU A LETTER ALONG
WITH HER.
WE ALSO GET THE SAME LETTER TO
THE STAFF CONCERNING OPPOSITION
TO THIS PROJECT.
>> YOUR STAFF ADVISED AGAINST
THIS BUILDING BECAUSE THERE WAS
NO THERE WAS A LACK OF A PROPER
STEP DOWN FOR THE BUILDING FOR
RESIDENTS OF THE AREA VOICED
OPPOSITION TO THE BUILDING
PROPERTY OWNERS BEFORE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND SAID
THEY WERE OPPOSED TO THIS
BUILDING.
THE BUILDING WILL HAVE A
SIGNIFICANT EFFECT ON OTHER
PROPERTIES IN THE AREA AND THE
PROPERTY OWNERS OF THESE
BUILDINGS ARE LOOKING AT THE
FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THAT OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGES BROUGHT
ON BY THIS BUILDING IN
PARTICULAR WE EXPECT TO HAVE TO
PAY TO CHANGE OUR LANDSCAPING
AND OUR H LAXEST.
THERE ARE OTHER COMMERCIAL
AREAS CLOSE TO CAMPUS WHERE A
BUILDING OF THIS SIZE COULD BE
IN ONE OF THE SPEAKERS ALREADY
SPOKE ABOUT THAT THERE IS NOT A
NEED TO BUILD AN APARTMENT
OF THIS SIZE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE RESIDENTIAL AREA
OF SMALL APARTMENTS AND TWO AND
THREE STOREY HOUSES.
I CLOSE WITH THIS QUESTION IF
THE STAFF HAS ADVISED AGAINST
THIS BUILDING FOR RESIDENTS AND
THE PROPERTY OWNERS IN THE AREA
ARE NOT IN FAVOR OF IT, WHO
WILL BE WILL COUNCIL BE
REPRESENTING IF THEY VOTE TO
APPROVE THE BUILDING?
THANK YOU
.
>> I AM I THE OWNER OF ONE
OF AMERICA'S MOST HISTORIC
HOMES.
I'VE WRITTEN MY COUNCIL MEMBERS
MULTIPLE TIMES ABOUT THIS ISSUE
EXPRESSING CONCERN WITH THIS
PUDI I'VE BEEN I WON'T REPEAT
ALL THE IMPORTANT POINTS OTHER
THAN TO SAY IT CONCERNS ME.
THE CITY STAFF PLANNING STAFF
HAD A THOUGHTFUL REPLY TO THIS
PROUD TO SAY THIS IS NOT
JUSTIFIED SIMPLY GOING TO A
HOUSING CRISIS TO SAY WE NEED
MORE HOUSING IN THIS HOUSING
REALLY BEING INTENTIONALLY FOR
STUDENTS.
WEALTHY STUDENTS WRITE THE
SMALL BUY IN TO THE TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE WOULD BE HAPPY TO SEE A MORE
APPROPRIATELY SIZED TRULY STEP
DOWN APPROPRIATELY ZONED
BUILDING THAT WAS NEWER LEED
CERTIFIED THAT DID ALL OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL THINGS THAT
YOU'RE INTERESTED IN AND ALSO
INCLUDED AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I WOULD ENTHUSIASTICALLY
SUPPORT SUCH A BUILDING SIMPLY
SAYING WE NEED MORE HOUSING FOR
STUDENTS ISN'T GOING TO SOLVE
OUR HOUSING CRISIS.
DOES THIS MEAN WE CAN JUST PUT
HOUSES ANYWHERE?
I MEAN TALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS
ANYWHERE?
AS AN OWNER I AM NOT SAVVY DUE
TO ZONING.
RIGHT?
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE STAFF IN THE
CITY WHO DO THIS.
HOWEVER, AS A AS AN OWNER OF A
HOUSE I DO THINK THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR ME TO BE ABLE TO
THINK THAT THE ZONING THAT HAS
BEEN PUT OUT BY THE CITY AS
PART OF A MASTER PLAN WILL BE
FOLLOWED IN CASES LIKE THIS.
AND I JUST I'VE BEEN ON ALL THE
MEETINGS AND IT WAS VERY QUIET
IN THE LAST MEETING I DID NOT
HEAR ANYTHING EXCEPT FOR WE
NEED MORE HOUSING FOR STUDENTS
AND I KNOW AT LEAST ONE OF OUR
COUNCIL MEMBERS CAME IN TONIGHT
WITH A VOTE FIXED HIS MIND WAS
FIXED WALKING INTO LINE.
I HEARD THIS AND THAT CONCERNS
ME.
WE'RE HERE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
REALLY IMPORTANT AND THOUGHTFUL
PUBLIC COMMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE
IN OPPOSITION TO THIS AND I
STRONGLY URGE YOU TO THINK
ABOUT THE FACT THAT ONCE THIS
BUILDING GOES UP IT CANNOT
EASILY COME DOWN RIGHT.
IT'S GOING TO BE THERE FOREVER.
IT'S GOING TO SHADE HOMES.
IT'S GOING TO CHANGE THE WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WHERE DOES IT
STOP AND WHY ARE WE IGNORING
ALL OF THE EMPTY LOTS?
THERE ARE MANY EMPTY AND OPEN
LOTS.
WE'RE IGNORING THEM BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE A DEVELOPER FROM
ANOTHER CITY AND PAID
CONSULTANTS ADVOCATING FOR A
ONE OF THOSE BUILDINGS.
THOSE LOTS ARE BEING PROPOSED
FOR DEVELOPMENT AND WE HAVE
BUILDINGS BEING FINISHED.
I'VE WALKED THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
TODAY AS I DO MOST DAYS AND I
LOOK AT THIS AND IT DOESN'T
FIT.
IT'S NOT A STEP DOWN THE
BARRIER THE LAND IS NOT BEING
UNDERUTILIZED AND THIS WON'T
REALLY FEEL NEED ITSELF.
WE NEED TO BE MORE THOUGHTFUL
ABOUT HOW WE USE ALL THE SPACE
AND HOW WE THINK ABOUT PUTTING
APPROPRIATELY SIZED BUILDINGS
INCLUDING HIGH RISE APARTMENTS
IN THE PLACES WHERE THEY FIT
NOT SIMPLY SHOVING THEM INTO
THE NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE NAME
OF A HOUSING CRISIS.
I REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO THINK
THIS THROUGH.
THIS IS A BIG DECISION.
ONCE IT GOES UP IT DOESN'T COME
DOWN AND THERE ARE MANY MORE
BEHIND IT.
WE KNOW THE CHURCH STREET WILL
BE HERE SOON AND I'M REALLY
CONCERNED THAT WE'RE JUST
PAVING THE WAY FOR DEVELOPERS
TO COME IN AND DO THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
>> ADAM, JUST HOW MUCH DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
HI.
THIS IS ADAM CALLING FROM THE
FOURTH WARD.
IT'S IT'S TWO SMALL STEPS IN
HOUSING CRISIS AND CRISIS.
AS I SAID, IT WAS ALSO A
PLANNING COMMISSION AND
CONFUSED.
MY STAFF IS RECOMMENDING DENIAL
IT IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE
SURROUNDING AREA HAS A NUMBER
OF BENEFITS FOR OUR CITY TO BE
WITHIN A COUPLE BLOCKS
OF SEVERAL OTHER BUILDINGS
OF COMPARABLE WEIGHT AND
DENSITY AND DOMINATED STUDENT
HOUSING AND STUDENT BODY CLUBS.
IT'S A BLOCK FROM REST.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS WITH
A DEMAND FOR HOUSING AND NOT
ENOUGH SUPPLY.
THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER
OF UNITS TO A LOCAL HOUSING
SUPPLY THAT IN ITSELF IS A
BENEFIT TO OUR CITY ALSO IN A
CLIMATE CRISIS AND AGAIN THIS
DEVELOPMENT TAKES A NUMBER
OF BOXES THERE A NUMBER
OF DISCUSSIONS AROUND
ENCOURAGING ELECTRIFICATION OR
EVEN BANNING NATURAL GAS
DEVELOPMENT.
WE ARE INSTALLING SOLAR PANELS
SO THAT SOME OF THE ENERGY
NEEDS WILL BE WILL BE GENERATED
ON SITE.
THERE ARE INCREASING THE
EFFICIENCY OF THE ENVELOPE WITH
EXTRA INSULATION TO ELIMINATE
THERMAL BURGETT ALL OF THESE
ARE GREAT AND SEEM TO BE ABOVE
AND BEYOND WHAT WE'RE WHAT WE
REQUIRE IN THE BUILDING CODE .
ANOTHER BENEFIT THIS IS EASILY
WALKABLE TO CAMPUS AND TO LOCAL
BUSINESSES THAT ARE FREQUENTLY
BY STUDENTS.
IT'S RIGHT IN THE THICK
OF THINGS IN TERMS OF STUDENT
SHOPPING SO RESIDENTS WILL
LIKELY NOT NEED TO DRIVE MUCH.
THIS IS GREAT BECAUSE WE'RE
TRYING TO CUT VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED IN HALF THIS
BENEFITS
ARE OUR GOALS AS WELL AS OUR
EIGHT TO ZERO GOALS.
FURTHERMORE, THIS BUILDING THAT
THEY WOULD PAY FOUR POINT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS INTO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND THE HOUSING
COMMISSION CAN MORTGAGE INTO
MORE WONDERFUL DEVELOPMENTS
LIKE ONE TWENTY ONE CATHERINE
THE FIFTH AND WILLIAM ANOTHER
COMING DOWN THE PIKE.
THESE BENEFITS TO THE CITY SEEM
SUBSTANTIAL TO ME AND IT'S MY
CONFUSION THAT SEEMS TO CHECK
OUT BOXES.
PLEASE APPROVE THIS REZONING
ANTICYCLONE PLAN TONIGHT AND
ECHOING THE THOUGHTS OF MR.
TRUDEAU PLEASE TEAR DOWN THE
BARRIERS THAT MAKE THIS KIND
OF DEVELOPMENT DIFFICULT SO WE
CAN MEET THE DEMAND FOR HOUSING
IN ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MICHELLE HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI THIS MORNING.
SO WHAT CITY WHAT THE WHAT
COMMUNITY REQUIRES IS COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
THAT'S HOW THAT'S HOW YOU MAKE
A COMMUNITY.
THAT'S WHAT COMMUNITY IS MADE
OF AND WE HAVE AN OPTION TO
EITHER ALLOW PEOPLE TO BE TO
EITHER WELCOME PEOPLE INTO OUR
COMMUNITY OR TO KEEP PEOPLE OUT
OF OUR COMMUNITY.
WE COULD SAY HEY, THIS IS JUST
THE WAY WE LIKE IT.
I DON'T WANT IT TO CHANGE.
BUT THEN IT'LL CHANGE ANYWAY
BECAUSE THE PRICE OF HOUSING
WILL GO HIGHER AND HIGHER AND
THE MORE EXPENSIVE WE GET THE
CHANGE ANYWAY BECAUSE THE
IMPACT OF ALL THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TO LIVE OUTSIDE THE TOWN
AND DRIVE IN WILL BE FELT BY US
AS WE HAVE TO MAKE MORE AND
MORE PARKING LOTS OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TO DRIVE IN FROM OUTSIDE.
>> SO I THINK IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT THAT WE ALLOW NEW
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS, ALLOW NEW
NEIGHBORS, ALLOW NEW COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND THIS IS A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY TO DO ALL OF THAT.
YOU KNOW, EVEN IF YOU DIDN'T
HAVE ALL THESE ALL THESE
SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENT, THE
THINGS THAT THEY'RE DOING SUCH
AS THE ELECTRIFICATION AND THE
THERMAL INSTALLATION, IT WOULD
STILL BE A BOON FOR OUR
COMMUNITY AND IT WOULD STILL BE
A NET GAIN FOR ENVIRONMENTALISM
BECAUSE IT WOULD ALLOW MORE
PEOPLE TO LIVE CAR FREE AND TO
WALK TO SCHOOL AND WALK TO WORK
AND WALK TO THE THINGS THAT
THEY WANT TO DO AND I THINK
THERE ARE PLENTY OF PEOPLE THAT
IF YOU GIVE THEM THAT CHANCE
THAT'S THE EXACT OPPORTUNITY
THAT THEY WANT.
SO WE SHOULD BE IN THE BUSINESS
OF GIVING PEOPLE THAT
OPPORTUNITY.
THIS IS THE GREAT PROJECT
BECAUSE IT WILL ALSO GIVE MONEY
TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
SO NOT ONLY WILL WE NOT ONLY
WILL THE PEOPLE WHO MOVE INTO
THIS BUILDING HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE HERE, BUT
WE'LL HAVE PEOPLE WILL HAVE
MORE OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO
LIVE DOWNTOWN IN A SUBSIDIZED
APARTMENT LATER ON.
SO THIS IS ALL THERE'S NO
NEGATIVES AND I THINK THAT
THEY'RE ALREADY OFFERING US
THIRTY SECONDS OF WORK AND A
LOT OF STUFF HERE AND THIS IS A
GREAT DEAL.
WE SHOULD TAKE IT AND WE SHOULD
ALSO MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO BUILD
MORE BUILDINGS LIKE THIS IN THE
FUTURE BECAUSE A COMMUNITY WITH
A LOT OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS IS
THE KIND OF COMMUNITY WE WANT A
COMMUNITY MEMBER WITH FEW CARS
IS THE KIND OF COMMUNITY THAT
WE WANT AND SO WE SHOULD MAKE
THAT EASY TO BUILD RATHER THAN
ILLEGAL.
THANK YOU
.
ADAM GOLDMAN, DO YOU HAVE
COMMENT?
>> YES, I'M SPEAKING TO YOU AND
THE WORD YOU'VE HEARD A LOT
OF PEOPLE BUT I'M GOING TO SAY
IT AGAIN THE CITY IS FACING A
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY CRISIS.
WE NEED MORE HOUSING AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS AND SUBSIDIZED
AND BUDGET THAT IS.
THANK YOU.
TONIGHT WE DO A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT TO SOME OF THOSE NEEDS.
IT WOULD DIRECTLY PROVIDE A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF UNITS
OF MARKET RATE STUDENT IN A
LOCATION THAT FRANKLY I CAN'T
IMAGINE A BETTER ONE STUDENT
HOUSING IT'S THE CAMPUS.
IT'S ABOUT FAROUK'S YOU KNOW
WHAT WHERE ARE WE GOING TO DO
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
RIGHT.
ALSO AS PART OF THIS PROJECT
THERE WILL BE A CONTRIBUTION
OF SOMETHING LIKE FOUR POINT
SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS.
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
THIS IS BADLY NEEDED A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO RESIDENTS OF THE
INNER PAST A VILLAGE TO RAISE
MONEY TO PURSUE A VERY
AMBITIOUS AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT THAT WHICH
IS ACTUALLY NOT WAS NEVER GOING
TO BE ENOUGH TO MEET OUR
AMBITIONS AND THIS HAS GOTTEN
WORSE BECAUSE OF INFLATION,
HYGIENE ISSUES AND VARIOUS
OTHER PROBLEMS CONSTRUCTION
COST, AFFORDABLE HOUSING HAVE
SKYROCKETED.
I HAVE SEEN AND I'M SURE YOU
HAVE SEEN MANY DISCUSSIONS,
PRESENTATIONS OF MEMOS FROM
CITY STAFF SPEAKING TO THIS
EXACT ISSUE.
>> THE CITY NEEDS A LOT MORE
MONEY IN THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND TO ACHIEVE THE GOALS THAT
YOU HAVE SET OUT FOR IT.
AND I'M NOT GOING TO CLAIM THAT
THIS ONE PROJECT WILL SOLVE
THAT BUT WE'LL PUT IT IN
PERSPECTIVE FOR YOU SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS IS MORE THAN 70
PERCENT OF THE MONEY RAISED
FROM THE ENTIRE CITY WHERE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
KNOWLEDGE IN IN A YEAR THAT'S
WHEN YOU GET MOST OF THE WAY
TOWARDS DOUBLING THE AMOUNT
OF REVENUE WE WOULD GET THROUGH
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND IN
A YEAR AND BY INCREASING THE
TAX BASE IT WOULD PROVIDE A
PERMANENT INCREASE TO THE MONEY
RAISED BY THAT VILLAGE AND
EVERY OTHER VILLAGE.
SO 30 SECONDS AND I'M SIMILARLY
PERPLEXED TO MY FRIEND ADAM
JUST GET ABOUT WHY THERE IS
EVEN ANY QUESTION ABOUT WHAT
THE RIGHT ANSWER IS HERE.
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO VOTE YES
ON THIS TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> CAR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
AND TO FIND YOUR COMMENT I THIS
IS JOE WILDLING.
I'M CALLING FROM FLINT,
MICHIGAN.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS IS A HECK OF A
LOT OF MONEY FOR A PORTABLE ONE
CAN SAY THAT IT'S GOING TO
SOMEHOW BLOW UP THE WAY LIKE
WE'RE MOVING INTO I DON'T KNOW
ABOUT WORK LIKE TYPICALLY I
DON'T THINK YOU CAN REMOVE THE
AIR AND MAKE YOUR IN CRISIS AND
SOME PEOPLE YOU DO OFFER THEM
SOMEWHERE ON LEAVE WITH THEIR
JOB.
I'LL BE RIGHT OUT THE WAY THAT
WE GET FROM INADEQUATELY.
SO I I THINK IT'S KIND OF JUST
ABSOLUTE BE MAKING STUFF UP AND
THEN TRYING TO SAY THAT WE JUST
LIKE WHAT COMING HOUSING DOWN
THE DRAIN ON TOP SUPERHEATED
AND I BETWEEN ETIOLOGY ABOUT
KARIMNAGAR MAYBE AND STUFF THAT
I'M SEEING HERE IN COUNTY AND I
DON'T I DON'T SEE THE
DIFFERENCE.
THANK YOU
.
HOLLER AT THE PHONE.
I'M RUNNING IN TWO FIVE THREE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
I ACTUALLY HAD MY HANDS DURING
THE P H THREE I HAD KEPT IT
RAISES AND SO DEFER TO WHEN YOU
THINK IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
AND I'M HAPPY TO WAIT TO BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE COMMENT ON THAT
AFTER EVERYTHING IS WRAPPED UP
.
WHAT I WHAT I HEAR YOU SAYING
IS THAT YOUR YOUR YOUR
INDICATING THAT I IMPROPERLY
WITH THAT CENTER CALL CALLED P
THREE CLOSED AND THAT YOU
REQUESTED IT BE REOPENED FOR
THE PURPOSE FOR THE SINGLE
PURPOSE OF YOUR COMMENT.
>> SO YES I IS THAT RIGHT MA'AM
I YES I'M SORRY.
>> ALL RIGHT THAT'S COOL.
ANY JACKSON A BRIEF RESUMPTION
OF PAGE THREE YOU HAVE FOUR.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I GREATLY APPRECIATE IT.
I KNOW ALL OF THEM.
MILLER I'M WITH THE ADVOCACY
NETWORK AND ON BEHALF OF THE
RESPONSIBLE
CARE COMMUNITY WE
ARE ASKING THAT YOU VOTE NO ON
THIS PROPOSED ORDINANCE AND
WORK WITH THE ENTIRETY OF THE
STAKEHOLDERS TO CREATE A HUMANE
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD BENEFIT THE
COMMUNITY AT LARGE.
ALSO IN A RESPONSIBLE PET CARE
COMMUNITY ARE DEDICATED TO
ENSURING THAT THE APPROPRIATE
CARE OF ANIMALS IS THE PRIMARY
FOCUS OF ANY LAW OR REGULATION
ADVOCACY AT WORK.
WE REGULARLY WORK WITH ALL
LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT TO MAKE
SURE ANY LAW OR REGULATION THAT
IS PUT IN PLACE HAS THE
INTEREST OF ANIMALS AND
RESPONSIBLE AND HEALTHY ANIMALS
HUMAN COMPANIONSHIP.
WE WELCOME THE OPPORTUNITY TO
WORK WITH THE CITY IN RAISING
THE BAR TO ENSURE PROPER ANIMAL
SOURCING THAT WOULD PROTECT
THAT CAT.
ALL RIGHT, ROBERT BYRD AND
MARGARET KYLE AND A COMMON
SENSE WOULD BE TO REQUIRE THAT
ANIMALS ONLY COME FROM
APPROPRIATE LICENSED BREEDER
WHILE WORKING WITH THE EXISTING
ARNAB OUR PETS OR COMMUNITY.
IT'S BEEN MENTIONED BOTH IN THE
PAST AND HERE TONIGHT THAT
THERE ARE NO YAKITORI
REGULATIONS GOVERNING PET
STORES AND CONCERNED ABOUT
THESE CLAIMS.
I FULLY EXPECT THE PROGRAM
MANAGER AT THE STATE LEVEL FOR
ALL HEALTH CARE READING
PROGRAMS TO INFORM ME THAT PET
STORES IN THE UNITED STATUTORY
REQUIREMENTS AND DEPENDING ON
WHAT ANIMAL SPECIES EXCEL OR
NOT, THEY MAY ALSO HAVE FEDERAL
AND LOCAL ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
LUCKILY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
AND THE STATE OF MICHIGAN HAVE
TAKEN STEPS TO PROTECT AND
ENSURE THE SAFETY OF ANIMAL BY
ENACTING SEVERAL LAYERS
OF REGULATION AND LAW.
WHILE WELL-INTENTIONED RETAIL
PET BILL BANS WILL NOT STOP A
BAD BREEDER OR UNREGULATED,
UNLICENSED AND NOT HELD
ACCOUNTABLE.
WE AGREE THAT THESE BAD ACTORS
WHO MISTREAT AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
AND SHOULD BE PUT OUT
OF BUSINESS.
UNFORTUNATELY WIDESCALE
POLITICIANS LIKE THE ONE
PROPOSED HERE ARE NOT THE
ANSWER AND WE HAVE SEEN THEM
HAVE THE OPPOSITE EFFECT
OFTENTIMES CREATING AN
UNREGULATED BLACKMAR MARKET FOR
THEIR PETS INCLUDING AGAIN CATS
AND ANIMALS THAT ARE INCLUDED
IN THIS ORDINANCE IN CALIFORNIA
WHEN THEY HAVE BANNED ON
PICKING SICK ANIMALS THAT HAD
BEEN PURCHASED ONLINE AND THERE
WAS NO WAY TO PROVIDE ANY
RECOURSE FOR THE ANIMAL OR THE
OWNER WHO WAS SEEKING THE BEST
CARE IT AGAIN WE HOPE AND WE
WOULD LOVE TO BE ABLE TO WORK
WITH THE CITY TO CREATE AN
ORDINANCE THAT WOULD BENEFIT
EVERYONE INCLUDING ANIMALS AND
PROTECT ANIMALS WHILE ALSO
PROTECTING PET STORES AND
ALLOWING THE RESIDENTS OF THE
NRA TO BE ABLE TO CHOOSE THEIR
SITUATION AND THEIR FAMILY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME AND
CONSIDERATION.
>> THANK YOU.
PUBLIC ENEMY NUMBER THREE IS
DOUBLE CLOSE RESUMING PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER FOUR OF ONLINE
MABUCHI CALLER THE PHONE NUMBER
AND AGAIN THREE ZERO AFTER SIX
OF YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS LISA DEVONS.
I LIVE AT 13 12 CAMBRIDGE ROAD
IN ANN ARBOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO ECHO THE OTHERS
WHO SPOKE ABOUT DENYING 721
CELL FOR A FEW DAYS.
IT SEEMS LIKE OUR ZONING LAWS I
MEAN NOTHING NOW WITH ALL THESE
EXCEPTIONS FOR HIGH RISES IN
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE THEY DO NOT
BELONG AS OTHERS SAID, THIS
BUILDING WAS DENIED BY STAFF
FOR A NUMBER OF GOOD REASONS.
I WANT YOU ALL TO THINK ABOUT
THE DANGEROUS PRECEDENT YOU ARE
SETTING BY APPROVING THE HIGH
RISE OF OF UNIVERSITY.
I WAS HALF A BLOCK FROM A
NUMBER OF STUDENT RENTAL HOUSES
ON SALE FOREST A FEW BLOCKS
SOUTH OF THE 721 SOUTHPAWS SITE
IN NORTH GRANT PARK.
AND I WONDER ALL THE TIME WHAT
IF A DEVELOPER PURCHASED THOSE
RENTAL HOUSES AND SO FORTH AND
PLAYED FOR A FEW DAYS TO BUILD
A HIGH RISE?
THEY ARE JUST LIKE WHAT JUST
HAPPENED ON CHURCH STREET MY
BEAUTIFUL 1910 HALF TIMBERED
HOUSE WHICH EASILY COULD HAVE
BEEN FEATURED IN THE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION AND PRESENTATION
EARLIER HAS BEEN LOVINGLY
MAINTAINED AT GREAT EXPENSE TO
US OVER THE YEARS NEXT DOOR TO
A HIGH RISE IT WOULD BECOME
WORTHLESS.
SO IN OUR QUALITY OF LIFE IF
MYSELF FOR A NIGHTMARE COMES
TRUE, MORE HIGH RISES WILL
PROBABLY FOLLOW DESTROYING A
LONG STANDING HISTORIC
NEIGHBORHOOD THROUGH THE
MISGUIDED NOTION THAT THE CITY
IS SOMEHOW CONTRACTUALLY
RESPONSIBLE FOR CREATING
HOUSING FOR UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN STUDENTS.
IT IS NOT I WANT EACH AND EVERY
ONE OF YOU TO THINK ABOUT WHAT
YOU WOULD DO IF THIS HAPPENED
ON YOUR BLOCK OR AROUND THE
CORNER FROM YOUR HOME THE WAY
THAT THIS COUNCIL PRIORITIZES
DEVELOPER OR NEIGHBORHOOD SHOWS
THE DISMAYING LACK OF RESPECT
AND SHORTSIGHTEDNESS.
ANN ARBOR ALREADY HAS PLENTY
OF HIGH RISE ZONE THAT IS WHERE
THEY SHOULD BE BUILDING HIGH
RISE.
IT IS SIMPLY UNFAIR AND WRONG
TO GRANT THESE EXCEPTIONS FOR
THESE LUXURY PRIVATE
DORMITORIES THAT A CITY SEEMS
SO OBSESSED WITH.
THEY HAVE NOT SOLVED OUR
HOUSING PROBLEMS OVER THE LAST
15 YEARS AND THEY WON'T DO SO
NOW THE MORE YOU APPROVE THESE
HIGH RISE PIECES THE MORE YOU
WILL EMBOLDEN THE DEVELOPERS TO
PROPOSE THEM IN THE FIRST PLACE
WHERE THEY DO NOT BELONG.
I AM BEGGING YOU PLEASE DON'T
OPEN THE DOOR TO THIS TREND
CASCADING DOWN SOUTH FOR THAT
THIRTY SECOND FAMILY WOULD CALL
A HOUSING THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
COLORA THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FIVE SEVEN
FORTY COMMENT GOT MY MISSION
INTERPOL THANK YOU FOR TAKING
THE TIME TO SHARE MY DAY I WAS
ON LIBERTY STREET I IN HUGE
SUPPORT OF THIS PROJECT.
IT IS ALREADY A BUNCH
OF STUDENT APARTMENTS BEING
INCLUDING A LOT PARKING.
THEY WILL BE MODERN,
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY,
ELECTRIFIED CONTRIBUTE TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THEY
WERE EXHAUSTED THAT THEY DO
RIGHT NOW SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE
MAY NOT BE STUDENTS BUT GIVEN A
NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE THAT THAT'S A
NO BRAINER THAT THE CITIES
SHOULD AS SOON AS POSSIBLE ON
THE YOU KNOW, MY OWN PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE IS INFORMED BY
GROWING UP IN THE CITY HAVING
UNIVERSITY FOR UNDERGRAD IN
GRAD SCHOOL AND IT'S HARD TO
FIND HOUSING AND IN PARTICULAR
THERE ARE STUDENTS,
PARTICULARLY UNDERGRAD STUDENTS
FROM OUT STATE RESOURCES CAN
AFFORD TO LIVE IN NEW BUILDING
AND BY BUILDING MODERATOR AND I
DIDN'T HAVE ALL THE AMENITIES I
THINK HOUSING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, THE BUILDING THAT
WE SHOULD BE BUILT ON TOP
OF THAT AS BIG AS THE EIFFEL
TOWER AS WE CAN AND WHAT I
WOULD BE CRAZY NOW ALMOST THREE
MILLION AND OF THIS IS PRETTY
AND I URGE THE COUNCIL TO MAKE
SYSTEMATIC CHANGES TO SUCH THAT
THESE THINGS NEED TO GET OUT IN
FRONT OF COUNCIL COMMITTEES AND
WE'RE DOING GOOD WORK ON IRAKLI
IN OTHER CORNERS OF THE CITY.
WE SHOULD LOOK AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARIES TO MAKE THESE SORTS
OF PROBLEMS BY WE ALREADY HAVE
A LOT OF HIGH RISES TOWARDS
STUDENTS FOR EXAMPLE LIKE THIS.
>> YOU FIRST.
THANK YOU CAR WITH A PHONE I'M
RUNNING IN THREE, FOUR OR FIVE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD YOU CAN I LIVE IN MORE
I I'M GOING TO COLLEGE BUT I
REALLY FELT LIKE I LOST BECAUSE
OF A NUMBER OF THINGS I LIKE TO
THINK SO MANY PEOPLE CAME OUT
AND TURNED IT INTO A CUL DE SAC
THEY A GOOD AND YOU TAKE THOSE
GOOD POINTS INTO CONSIDERATION
AND FINALLY CONSIDER YOUR VOTE
ON THIS PROJECT.
I WOULD LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT
BOTH THE CITY COUNCIL AND THE
OPPOSITION TO THE PROJECT
EXPERT I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR AN
EXPLANATION OF WHY YOU THINK
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
BECAUSE YOU'RE SAYING IF YOU
APPROVE THIS PROJECT TO BE AN
EXPERT AND BETTER TO HAVE
PLANNING STAFF AND
SUSTAINABILITY STAFF
DISCUSSION
TONIGHT I WOULD LIKE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHY YOU ARE
LISTENING TO THE FIRST YOU
THANK YOU, LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT BY CITY COUNCIL
AND MR. MAYOR, I ALSO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK IN STRONG SUPPORT
FOR THIS PROJECT THE TWENTY ONE
SUPPORT AND NOT TO REITERATE
WHAT MANY OF THE OTHER
SUPPORTIVE SPEAKERS HAVE EXCEPT
TO SAY THAT ONCE AGAIN POINTS
OUT THE NEED FOR REFORM IN THE
CITY OF TO MAKE A PROJECT LIKE
THIS PRACTIC BE RIGHT.
>> I YOU KNOW, I SPEAK JUST
FROM
A PERSONAL STANDPOINT A
PROPERTY IN A TOWN WHERE I
WOULD LOVE TO COLLECT BUT THE
ZONING OF THE CITY WILL NOT
ALLOW FOR THAT.
>> SO YOU THE SOONER WE CAN GET
TO THAT REFORMA THE ZONING IN
OUR TOWN BETTER I THINK WE CAN
AFFORD TO WAIT MUCH LONGER FOR
PROJECTS SUCH AS WHAT WE SEE
BEFORE ALMOST.
>> SO AGAIN PLEASE SUPPORT
TWENTY ONE SCORES.
>> THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE COMMENT
?
>> HI THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING
IN FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST.
>> HE SAID UP TO BE HONEST WITH
YOU GUYS I'M NOT ACTUALLY A BIG
FAN OF THIS PUDI 98 EIGHT
SPACES AT SEEMS EXCESSIVE AND
PROVIDING MORE SUBSIDIZED
PARKING IS REALLY QUITE
CONTRARY TO THE CITY'S CLIMATE
CHANGE.
THE STANCE THAT HE CALLS SIX
HUNDRED FIFTY PERCENT MAXIMUM
FOR THE RATIO THAT IS A
PITTANCE WE SHOULD BE SEEING
THREE TO FIVE THOUSAND MAX THAT
THEY ARE AND ONLY TWELVE
STORIES THAT THIS AREA NEEDS
MORE BUILDINGS LIKE THE NEARBY
UNIVERSITY TOWERS WHICH IS
EIGHTEEN STOREYS AT ALL.
OR PERHAPS THIS SHOULD BE THE
SIDE OF ARAB IS VERY NEXT TOWER
I COULD GO ON BUT I THINK THIS
INDICATES MY DISPLEASURE WITH
THIS.
YEAH, BUT WHEN I STUDIED
ENGINEERING ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT THINGS I LEARNED
ABOUT WAS TRADE AND IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE I THINK THE
ONLY THING THAT COULD BE WORSE
THAN APPROVING THIS WOULD BE
NOT APPROVING IT.
I AGREE WITH MANY OTHERS WHO
HAVE SAID THAT KIDS ARE BAD
WORKAROUNDS TO THE CURRENT
PROFESSIONAL FIELD OF SOFTWARE
DEVELOPMENT.
THIS IS CALLED A COACHMEN.
THIS PERIOD IS IT IS AN
INDICATOR NOT JUST NOT JUST
OF PROBLEMS AT THIS SITE BUT
OUR ZONING AS A WHOLE IS BAD
AND NEEDS FIXING AND WE NEED TO
BE DOING THAT BUT WE CANNOT
AFFORD THE STEEP COSTS
OF WAITING UNTIL A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BEFORE
BEFORE IS PURSUED THROUGH.
>> WE NEED TO KEEP MOVING
FORWARD FORWARD WITH WHAT WE
HAVE WHILE WE'RE WORKING ON
WHAT WILL COME NEXT.
WE'RE IN A HOUSING CRISIS AND
THE HOUSING WILL ALLOW IS A
CITY THE MORE WE AS A CITY ARE
CHOOSING TO TAKE HOUSING AWAY
FROM PEOPLE, PERHAPS THOSE WHO
HAVE SPOKEN OUT TONIGHT IN
OPPOSITION TO THOSE PUDI WOULD
BE WILLING TO CHIP IN TO
REPLACE THE FOUR POINT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS OF MONEY THAT
DENIAL OF BEAUTY WOULD DENY TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR MAYBE
THEY'D BE WILLING TO OPEN THEIR
OWN HOUSES TO REPLACE THE SIX
HUNDRED THIRTY ONE ADDITIONAL
BEDROOMS THAT WOULD BE LOST IF
WE DON'T APPROVE THIS AT EUDY
SO PLEASE APPROVE THIS ABILITY
NOW AND IMPROVE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SO THAT
THESE SORTS OF DEVELOPMENT CAN
BE RIGHT IN FUTURE.
THE CUTIE'S WILL CONTINUE UNTIL
THE ZONING IMPROVES.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU CARLA.
THE PHONE NUMBER AGAIN ONE NINE
FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
WHETHER
THIS IS READING THAT ACTUALLY I
SPEAKING FOR MYSELF AND A
MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION AND
I'M SITTING IN COURT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BEING SET FOR
DEVELOPMENT.
MY CONCERN HAS TO DO WITH THE
NEED AS TO MENTION FOR
IMPROVEMENT IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE NOW'S THE TIME TO
DO IT AND WE FIND THAT THIS
PROJECT GOT AS FAR AS IT HAS
WITHOUT SERIOUSLY CONSULTING
FAVORS AND WITHOUT SERIOUSLY
LISTENING TO THE PROFESSIONAL
STAFF THAT HAVEN'T DONE IT.
SO I'M JUST CALLING TO SUPPORT
THE VOTE AGAINST TONIGHT.
AND WHAT DO YOU THINK I AM IN
SUPPORT OF TAKING ACTION THAT
WILL SUPPORT OUR QUITE
ADDRESSING CLIMATE A CLIMATE
EMERGENCY THAT WE HAVE THAT WE
REALLY NEED TO DO IT IN A
CONSIDERED WAY AND LET'S DO
THAT.
LET'S TAKE THE TIME AND HAVE A
GOOD CONVERSATION ABOUT IT THAT
WE CAN ALL SUPPORT IN THE
FUTURE SINCE THAT IS A VERY
SLAPDASH APPROACH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I DON'T SEE ANY ADDITIONAL
CALLERS ON THE LINE FOR THIS
HEARING SAID OK, SO I AND I
HAVE YOU SPOKEN AT THIS PUBLIC
BY ALL MEANS SORRY.
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
I DID NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE OF PRACTICE THIS IS
SAYING THAT THIS MY COMMENTS
FEEL LIKE THE ENDING SCENE AND
THAT THE MUSICIANS ARE JUST
PLAYING ON IT ANOTHER OUTCOME
AND I SAY THIS WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT SOMEONE SAID RECENTLY
THAT THE GOAL IS TO MAKE OUR
THE OUT OF THE MIDWEST AND I
JUST WAS IN AUSTIN FOR AND
PEOPLE WHO HAD BADGES I DID NOT
HAVE A BADGE AND I WAS JUST
EXPERIENCING THE VELVET ROPE
AND HOW UNFORGIVING IT IS.
AND I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
FOR A MOMENT ALL OF THE NUTS
AND BOLTS IN MY SCREEN THAT
KEEP THIS CITY THIS MACHINE IN
MOTION.
ALL THE DEEJAYS AND DRAG
QUEENS, ALL THE BUSKERS, ALL
THE CREATIVE ARTISTS WHO MAKE
THOSE MILLS WHO GET PAID JUST A
FLEETING PRELUDE AND THEN THEY
LEFT TO FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO
WITH THE LATIN TEETH IN THEIR
MOUTH.
THEY JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
ALL THE PEOPLE WHO KEEP THIS
CITY IN MOTION LIKE MYSELF AND
HOW WE'RE BEING PRESSED TO STAY
ON WELFARE.
I'M CURRENTLY ON FOOD STAMPS.
I'M ON OBAMACARE.
THIS IS A SERIES OF STEPS THAT
WE CAN IN THIS CITY HAVE LED ME
INTO THIS POSITION AND I'M JUST
REALLY AT A POINT KEEP MAKING
APARTMENTS WITHOUT HAVING SON.
I'M HAVING FOUR POINT SEVEN IS
A BIT OF AN APARTMENT THAT IN
TEN MINUTES SEE ME SAYING FOUR
HUNDRED OF THE 600 UNITS IT
SEEMS TO ME WE'RE GOING ABOUT
THIS IS SAYING EVERY SINGLE
MONTH GETS BUILT THE GOAL IS
NOT TO GENTRIFY ALL THE PEOPLE
WHO MAKE IT UNIQUE OUT OF THE
PLACE AND YOU DON'T WANT PEOPLE
TO HAVE TO TAKE THE BEST MY TO
TAKE A BUS FROM YPSILANTI AND
OVER TO DETROIT MUSIC CULTURE
AT THE DETROIT PUBLIC THEATER.
EVERYONE JUST IT'S IMPOSSIBLE
PEOPLE FORGET THE NUMBER ONE
THING BETWEEN THE COPS AND THEY
HAVE NO CASE THAT'S A KID
STANDING ON A FLAT LAND BECAUSE
OUR CHROMOSOMES ARE BUILT THAT
WAY.
AND I THINK THAT HAVING RADICAL
DEVOTION TO MAKE SPACES AND
RADICAL DEVOTION TO GIVING A
UPI A GUARANTEED GROUND FLOOR
FOR THE CULTURAL AMBASSADORS
AND CIVIC FIGURES WHO ARE THE
SOCIAL LUBRICATION NATURALLY
BEING THE THING THAT ALLOWS THE
FRICTION POINTS TO BE LESS
PAINFUL FOR ALL OF US.
WE'RE ALL FEELING THE THROBBING
ACHE OF THIS UNIVERSITY.
I GET IT.
I WENT THROUGH I WENT TO THIS
UNIVERSITY.
I LOVE IT ALL BUT I DON'T WANT
TO CONSTANTLY BE I LOVE THIS
CITY.
I LOVE THIS CITY AND I LOVE MY
TRANS PEOPLE, MY PEOPLE KNOW
THE VIRGIN PEOPLE, MY PEOPLE
WHO DO NOT CHASE MONEY AS THE
ULTIMATE MOTIVATION FOR BEING
ALIVE.
I READ IT IN VERY COMPELLING,
VERY DELICIOUS AND I'M REALLY
GOOD AT CHESS AND WOULD BE
GORGEOUS IN THE DOWNTOWN YOU DO
ON A REGULAR BASIS AND THE MORE
WE CAN MAKE BETTER I GET 10
HOURS OF COMMUNITY WHATEVER IT
IS TO GET MY LOCAL CREATIVES TO
STAY DOWNTOWN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
CALL OVER THE PHONE NUMBER
AGAIN SEVEN THREE SIX.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
OR AN
THEY WANT TO SLIGHTLY WANT TO
KEEP THE INFINITY OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND I WANT TO TALK TO
PEOPLE OVER THERE USUALLY
TALKING POINTS.
THEY ONLY THINK ABOUT WHAT WE
NEED IN THE LIFE OF A LOW
INCOME PERSON.
YOU KNOW WHAT WITH A LOW INCOME
STRUCTURE THAT WENT UP RECENTLY
IN YOUR AREA THERE THEY WERE
ASKING FOR INCOME COUNSELING
THIRTY EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS.
AND SO ARE YOU LIKE WHEN YOU
SAY AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AFFORDABLE FOR SCHOOLS I
SOMETIMES WILL BE BY IDEOLOGY
COMES WITH THE MIND OF BEING
PROJECTS AND BEING ABLE TO
ACCESS THE BUILDINGS OR DO
THINGS WITHOUT BARRIERS.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING BECAUSE OUR
MINDS ARE MADE UP ON THE TABLE
NOW INPUT SOMETIMES RIGHT FROM
WHATEVER YOU DO IN THE
SITUATION.
I CAUTION YOU TO THINK ABOUT
WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE
ALL THE
TIME THAT EACH OF YOUR GOALS
CAN'T AFFORD TO LIVE THERE BUT
CAN BUILD UP YOUR ECONOMY WITH
THE HELP.
WE CAN'T LIVE IN ANN ARBOR BUT
WE WERE AND WE CAN AND THAT
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF HISTORY EVEN WHEN
YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT WOMEN'S
DEVELOPMENT IN PLACE, IF YOU GO
TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING, MAKE IT
AFFORDABLE, MAKE IT ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL PEOPLE PEOPLE THAT LOOK
LIKE ME, PEOPLE THAT ARE LOW
INCOME, PEOPLE THAT ARE
STRUGGLING THOSE ARE THE FOLKS
THAT NEED TO BE AT THIS HOUR
NOT THOSE THAT WE CONTINUE TO
UPLIFT.
ARE YOU THE THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE THE OTHER CALLERS
AND ZOOME FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE, NO ONE PUBLIC HEARING
NUMBER FOUR IS CLOSED.
LET TAKE A SHORT BREAK.
IT'S TIME IS IT EXACTLY 953?
>> WE WILL RESUME AT TEN OH
THREE
WE ARE BACK AFTER A SHORT
BREAK PUBLIC FURY NO.
FIVE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
SEVEN TWENTY ONE S FIRST PUDI
FLIGHT PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
YES, THE VOTE HEARING
FLIGHTPLAN PLAN RELATED.
YES, SLIGHTLY UNRELATED.
SO THIS IS RELATED TO THE
SEGMENT OF THIS BUILDING.
YOU KNOW AGAIN THIS BUILDING
THAT HAS SEVEN HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THREE BEDROOMS IN IT SO
SOME PREVIOUS PUBLIC COMMITTERS
ASKED SOME GOOD QUESTIONS LIKE
WHO WHO DO YOU REPRESENT?
WHO OWNS THIS BUILDING OR WHO
IS THE CITY FOR AND YES, THE
SEVEN HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE
BEDROOMS IN THIS BUILDING WOULD
PROBABLY BE MOSTLY OCCUPIED BY
WEALTHY STUDENTS THAT ARE
ATTENDING THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
AND SO IF YOU SAY NO TO THIS
DEVELOPMENT, YOU'RE SAYING NO
TO THOSE SEVEN HUNDRED THIRTY
THREE HOMES WHERE THOSE SEVEN
HUNDRED THIRTY THREE
OF STUDENTS GO TO A COUNTY, JOE
POINTED OUT PEOPLE HAVE TO LIVE
SOMEWHERE AND IF THEY'RE NOT IF
YOU DON'T BUILD THE HOUSING
THAT THEY WANT TO LIVE IN, THEY
WANT TO LIVE.
THEY'LL MOVE, THEY'LL LIVE
SOMEWHERE ELSE AND THOSE 733
STUDENTS GOING TO SIDE NEVER
MIND THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IS ONE OF THE BEST SCHOOLS IN
THE COUNTRY.
IT'S REALLY HARD TO GET INTO
BUT THEY DIDN'T BUILD THIS
APARTMENT BUILDING SO I'M NOT
GOING TO COME HERE.
OF COURSE NOT.
THEY'RE GOING TO FIND THE NEXT
BEST OPTION.
>> AND THEN WHAT ARE THE PEOPLE
WHO WOULD OTHERWISE BE LIVING
IN THOSE APARTMENTS AND SO ON.
SO WE BY SAYING NO TO THIS
WE'RE EXCLUDING SEVEN HUNDRED
AND THIRTY THREE PEOPLE FROM
OUR COMMUNITY THAT WOULD WANT
TO LIVE HERE.
I MEAN THAT'S JUST THE REALITY
OF HOW THE MUSICAL CHAIRS
OF AMERICA GOES AND WE ARE ALSO
SAYING NO TO MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUNDING NOW DOES ADAM
GOODMAN POINTED OUT THAT YOU
KNOW, IT'S NOT ONLY THE FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS BUT ALSO THE
TAX MONEY OVER TIME THAT WILL
SPUR ALL KINDS OF THINGS WE
NEED WHICH WE HAVEN'T HASN'T
BEFORE IS THAT MONEY IS ALWAYS
LEVERAGED WITH OTHER GRANTS AND
FUNDING SOURCES.
SO EVERY DOLLAR WE BRING IN
THAT'S UNCONDITIONAL LIKE THIS
INTO OUR FUND WE CAN LEVERAGE
MULTIPLE TIMES OVER AGAIN.
SO IT'S NOT FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS.
TWENTY FIVE MILLION DOLLARS OR
MORE THAT CAN BE PUT TO GOOD
USE IN ALL OF THE AMBITIOUS
PROJECTS THAT WE HAVE LINED UP
.
WE'LL BE SAYING NO TO THOSE
PEOPLE AND WE'LL BE SAYING NO
TO THE PEOPLE WHO COME HERE
LOOKING FOR HOUSING AND BECAUSE
30 STUDENTS CAME LOOKING FOR
SOMEWHERE TO LIVE ARE TAKING
THE PLACE THAT THEY MIGHT HAVE
OTHERWISE TAKEN.
I'M SORRY THERE'S NO ROOM FOR
YOU HERE.
AND SO YEAH, WE SPENT ONE
HUNDRED YEARS FINDING REASONS
TO SAY NO, EVERYONE CAN
ENTHUSIASTICALLY SUPPORT
IMAGINARY BUILDING THAT CAN'T
ACTUALLY BE BUILT ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT AFFORDABLE ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT GREEN PASSIVE HOUSE
PERFECT AND TWO STORIES TALL
FOR THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE LIKE IT
CAN'T HAPPEN AND IF WE DEMAND
THINGS THAT CAN'T HAPPEN WE GET
NOTHING AND IF WE GET NOTHING
WE KNOW WHAT THE OUTCOME IS.
WHAT WAS THE OTHER THING?
YEAH.
SO LASTLY I HAVE TO SAY
SOMEBODY ASKED WHAT IF IT WAS
NEXT TO MY HOME?
I LIVE IN A VERY SIMILAR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I LIVE IN A NINETY FOUR HOUSE
AND I SAID YES PLEASE BUILD A
HIGH RISE IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> I'M SURE MANY STUDENTS HERE
WOULD LOVE IT.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING
SINCE THIS
ISN'T REALLY ABOUT THE ACTUAL
THE PREVIOUS COMMENTS REALLY
ABOUT THE ACTUAL PLAN BUT AGAIN
JUST REITERATING SOME OF THE
PREVIOUS COMMENTS I UNDERSTAND
THE HOUSING CRISIS AND I
COMPLETELY AGREE WE NEED MORE
HOUSING BUT IT'S THE WHERE ARE
YOU GOING TO JUST IGNORE
PLANNING AND STAFF AND THE
PEOPLE WE PAY AS A CITY WHO
HAVE THOUGHT THROUGH THE CITY'S
PLAN AND HAVE EVALUATED THIS
AND RECOMMENDED AGAINST ARE YOU
GOING TO IGNORE THOSE PEOPLE
WHO WE AS A CITY PAY TO
EVALUATE THINGS LIKE THIS AND
SIMPLY JUST APPROVE THIS AND AS
THEY SAID APPROVED THE MANY
MORE LIKE IT THEY HAVE PLANNED
?
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT A DOMINO
EFFECT THAT WHEN THIS GOES UP
YOU MIGHT AS WELL JUST GO AHEAD
AND JUST ROLL OUT THE RED
CARPET FOR DEVELOPERS AS
OPPOSED TO ASKING THEM TO DO
WHAT'S RIGHT, WHICH IS TO GO
BUY THE PROPERTIES THAT ARE IN
THE IN THE LOCATIONS THAT ARE
ALREADY ZONED FOR A BUILDING
LIKE THIS THAT WOULD ADDRESS
THE HOUSING CRISIS TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AS I WALKED
THROUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD TODAY
THERE ARE ALREADY BUILDINGS
BEING BUILT IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WILL HELP
ADDRESS THE HOUSING CRISIS.
IT'S IT'S NOT ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT WE NEED IT.
IT'S JUST A QUESTION OF CAN WE
JUST GO UP AND BUILD THIS
ANYWHERE?
COULD WE GO DOWN TO BURNS PARK
AND JUST PUT ONE VERTICAL
BECAUSE WE HAVE SOME SPACE
THERE COULD YOU GO OVER THE OLD
WEST SIDE AND JUST PUT A 12
STOREY BUILDING RIGHT THERE?
I JUST THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT WHERE WE PUT
OUR OUR BUILDINGS AND I AGREE
IT'S A STUDENT NEIGHBORHOOD BUT
A STUDENT NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED
WITH SINGLE FAMILY.
IT'S PART OF THE UNIQUE
CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR AND THE
QUESTION IS DO YOU WANT TO
FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGE THAT?
DO YOU WANT TO CHANGE THE
UNIVERSITY AND THE CITY'S
UNIQUE RELATIONSHIP?
I EMPLOY A LOT OF STUDENTS.
I'M A UNIVERSITY FACULTY.
I LOVE OUR STUDENTS.
I CARE ABOUT OUR STUDENTS.
HOWEVER, THE IDEA THAT WE
SHOULD JUST NILLY PUT
BUILDINGS ANYWHERE BECAUSE WE
NEED MORE HOUSING FOR STUDENTS
AND THE IDEA THAT A SINGLE
HOUSING UNIT IS GOING TO
SOMEHOW SOLVE ALL OF THE
TRICKLE DOWN EFFECT IS JUST
FALSE.
I DO THINK YOU COULD BUILD A
BUILDING THAT WOULD BE TALL,
MAYBE EVEN SLIGHTLY TALLER THAN
THE ONE THAT'S THERE BUT THE
TRUE STEP DOWN AND TRULY
INCORPORATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
MY FATHER SPENT HIS CAREER IN
TECH SUPPORT, A TAX CREDIT,
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I UNDERSTAND SPACE BETTER THAN
MOST OUTSIDE OF THAT SPACE AND
I CAN SAY WITH GREAT CERTAINTY
IF WE DID THAT THAT WOULD BE A
POSITIVE AND I WOULD BE VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF IT.
I JUST THINK THIS IS JUST A
VEILED COMMENT THAT IS INTENDED
TO MAKE PROFIT FOR A TEXAS
BASED DEVELOPER AND ALSO HELP
ME HELP HELP STUDENTS AND IT'S
ONLY STUDENTS AND THIS
GENTLEMAN IS VERY KIND OF THANK
YOU
FOR ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE.
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING SO I I DON'T
HAVE PREPARED COMMENTS.
ELLEN RAMSBURG AGAIN.
FIFTY THREE CAMBRIDGE ONE ONE
THOUGHT IS COULD YOU PLEASE
GIVE PROOF THAT EXPENSIVE HIGH
RISE STUDENT HOUSING GIVES
AFFORDABLE ADDS TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT WE HAVE
IN ANN ARBOR?
>> DOES THIS REALLY HELP OUR
PROBLEM?
DOES IT REALLY HELP THE
SUSTAINABILITY PROBLEM THIS
PARTICULAR DEVELOPMENT PROPOSES
ALL ELECTRIC BUT ALL OF THEIR
ELECTRIC IS COMING FROM THE
DIRTY COAL BURNING PLANT ON THE
COAST LAKE ERIE OR SOUTH
OF DETROIT.
SO ARE WE REALLY THIS IS JUST A
WAY TO TO MAKE FOR A DEVELOPER
TO MAKE MONEY BY SAYING THAT HE
IS ADDRESSING THE HOUSING
CRISIS, THAT HE IS ADDRESSING
THE SUSTAINABILITY THE GOALS
OF THE CITY TO GET TO A ZERO OR
IS HE JUST LOOKING AT THE
MARKET THAT IS MOST PRODUCTIVE
AND MOST WILL GIVE HIM THE MOST
MONEY AND IS THAT CONTRIBUTION
TO THE HOUSING FUND IT IS THAT
CAN YOU WEIGH THAT AGAINST
ACTUALLY BUILDING AFFORDABLE
UNITS INTO A BUILDING?
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT I THINK
THE FOUR MILLION POINT SEVEN IS
JUST A DROP IN THE BUCKET TO
WHAT HE COULD DO IF WE ASKED
HIM TO BE TO DO A BETTER
PROJECT IF WE DEMANDED THAT HE
DO A BETTER PATRICK HE CLEARLY
WANTS TO BUILD LET'S GET THE
BEST WE CAN GET.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE LINE TO
GET TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> I HAD ALEX LOWE ONCE
AGAIN
CALLING IN FROM SOUTH
SOUTHEAST.
HE SET UP LIKE I SAID IN A
PREVIOUS PUBLIC HEARING, I'M
NOT A BIG COMMUNITY AND MY
PRIMARY REASON IS SO MANY
COMPLAIN ABOUT WHAT I LIKE
ABOUT IT ON VETERANS THAT'S
WOEFULLY INSUFFICIENT.
>> IT'S SIXTH FLOOR SHORTER
THAN THE NEARBY UNIVERSITY.
IT IS LESS THAN A 10X FAADE.
>> THERE IS TOO MUCH PARKING
FOR CARS AND THERE'S NOT ENOUGH
PARKING FOR BIKES.
YOU KNOW WHAT'S ACTUALLY WORSE
THAN THAT CYCLING THE LIES THAT
THAT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TELLING
HERE IN OPPOSITION TO IT
ESPECIALLY SINCE THE VERY
RESOLUTION WE ARE DISCUSSING
SAYING JUST MAKES THE LIVES
INCREDIBLY OBVIOUS.
>> OH, THIS IS GOING TO BE ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT POWER.
BUT IF THE SAY THE SITE PLAN
LITERALLY INCLUDES HUNDRED
KILOWATTS OF SOLAR PANELS BY A
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT HOUSE
WHICH IS A MUCH LESS ENERGY
EFFICIENT TYPE OF BUILDING THAT
THEN THIS WILL BE THE NEEDS FOR
KILOWATTS OF OF SOLAR PANELS TO
FULLY MAKE UP FOR MY ENERGY
CONSUMPTION.
>> SO IT WILL THIS WILL BE
COVERING AT LEAST 20 25 UNITS
PROBABLY PROBABLY FAR MORE JUST
WITH JUST WITH THE SOLAR FROM
THAT.
>> OH, WE'RE PUTTING IT UP WILL
IT WILINESS WHAT ARE YOU
TALKING ABOUT?
>> WE'VE GOT THROUGH THE
PROCESS AFTER PROCESS AFTER
PROCESS DISCUSSING THIS EVERY
STEP OF THE OF THE WAY.
SO COME ON IF YOU'RE OPPOSED TO
THIS FINE BUT BE OPPOSED TO IT
FOR GOOD REASONS.
DON'T LIKE THESE PEOPLE.
YOU DON'T YOU DON'T HAVE TO
SINK TO TO THAT LEVEL.
LET'S LET'S TALK ABOUT REALITY,
NOT FANTASY.
AND WHILE WHILE TALKING WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT REALITY.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT ABOUT THE
FACT THAT WE NEED TO FIX THE
OVERALL ZONING AND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BECAUSE THE
CLOUDS WILL CONTINUE UNTIL
ZONING IMPROVES TIME.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> I FOUND THAT LAST COMMENT
REALLY OFFENSIVE TO SAY THAT
PEOPLE HAVE COME HERE AND LIE
AT THIS HEARING IS NOT THE WAY
WE CARRY OUT A DEMOCRATIC
CONVERSATION.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
, MARY?
DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE
SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE
FIVE TWENTY TWENTY THREE HAVE
MOST PLANS TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCILOR
ACKMANN SECOND BACKCOUNTRY
CORNELL DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ON FAVOR POST MINUTES
OR PROVED WE WANT AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION TEN 176
OF CHAPTER ONE TWO SEVEN
BICYCLISTS OF TITLE THREE
IMPOUNDING OF TITLE TEN TRAFFIC
OF THIS CITY OF THE ANN ARBOR
CITY CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL SECONDARY
COUNCIL NO IA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE1 COUNCIL REGNUM.
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS LAST TIME
BUT I'LL JUST SAY BRIEFLY AGAIN
THAT CURRENTLY THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT SELLS OFF THE
IMPOUNDED BIKES WHICH USUALLY
WIND UP IN A LAND FAR, FAR AWAY
ALSO KNOWN AS NEW YORK WHERE
THEY'RE SOLD AND LOTS FOR NOT
VERY MUCH AT ALL.
SO THIS ORDINANCE IS A CHANGE
WAS TO DONATE THE BIKES TO A
NONPROFIT WHERE THEY CAN BE
REPAIRED AND PUT INTO USE BY
THOSE WHO LIVE IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND NEED A BIKE AND CAN'T
AFFORD.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS PROVED TO BE TOO
ORDINANCE TO REPEAL SECTION
EIGHT FIVE TO FIVE TO FIVE TO
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA THINK ABOUT CUTHBERT
GOOSY EDWYN DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE2
ON FAVOR POSED RAKOVA
YOU WANT TO RECOVER REMEMBER
THE VOTE IS OUR PASSED WITH
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
PART OF NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS
VOTING IN FAVOR COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA VOTING IN OPPOSITION BE
THREE AND AUDIENCE TO ADD
SECTION NINE TO HUMAN PET
AQUISITION TO TITLE SEVEN
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IODIZED GUSHIN PLEASE
OF BE THREE COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> I'D LIKE TO BE ADDED AND I'D
LIKE TO RECOGNIZE THAT I DON'T
THINK YOU MEANT HUMAN PET
ACQUISITION.
THEY ARE A LITTLE BABIES BUT
PERHAPS NOT SO BABY BABIES.
YES I THINK I MEANT HUMANE PET
ACQUISITION.
THANK COUNCILOR RACKMAN.
>> THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO RECOGNIZE THAT
SINCE THE FIRST READING WE'VE
HEARD FROM LITERALLY DOZENS
OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS WHO ARE
VIRTUALLY UNANIMOUS IN THEIR
SUPPORT OF THIS CHANGE.
IN FACT I DON'T THINK I'VE
GOTTEN AS MANY EMAILS ABOUT
ANOTHER SINGLE ISSUE IN MY SIX
MONTHS IN THIS POSITION.
UM, YOU KNOW, RESIDENTS ARE
MAKING IT CLEAR THAT THEY DON'T
WANT POOR ANIMALS SOURCED FROM
MILLS.
THEY DON'T WANT THEM SUBJECTED
INHUMANE CONDITIONS.
THIS IS PROGRESSIVE POLICY THAT
MOVES US AWAY FROM SUPPORTING
THAT.
I THINK IT'S PRETTY TELLING
THAT VIRTUALLY ALL OF THE
OPPOSITION CAME FROM OUTSIDE
OF OUR COMMUNITY FROM SPECIAL
INTEREST GROUPS WHO MADE
INACCURATE CLAIMS ABOUT THIS AS
WELL AS WHAT'S GOING ON IN OUR
COMMUNITY WHICH AGAIN IS THAT
CURRENTLY THERE ARE NO PET
STORES SELLING THESE PETS TODAY
YOU CAN STILL BUY YOU'LL STILL
BE ABLE TO BUY PETS FROM
DIRECTLY FROM BREEDERS WHERE
YOU CAN SEE THE CONDITIONS.
YOU'LL STILL BE ABLE TO ADOPT
PETS FROM PET STORES.
SO I WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY
FOR REACHING OUT.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE HUMANE
SOCIETY EMILY WHO BROUGHT THIS
TO MY ATTENTION HAS SPOKEN SO
ELOQUENTLY SEVERAL TIMES ABOUT
THIS AS WELL AS THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY WHO CREATED THE MODEL
LANGUAGE ORDINANCE AND OUR
ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY MATTHEW
THOMAS.
SO YEAH, I THINK AS WAS
MENTIONED SOME OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS OF PROTESTERS TONIGHT
WE'RE JOINING A GROWING LIST
OF OTHER MUNICIPALITIES THAT
HAVE SIMILAR BANS INCLUDING IN
OUR STATE ROYAL OAK AND ST.
CLAIR SHORES.
SO I HOPE THAT WE CAN PASS THIS
TO MAKE FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THESE THREE IN FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED BEFORE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF ONE
POINT TWO ACRES R FOR C
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL TO PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT SEVEN TO ONE S FOREST
PUDI ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION SEVEN TO ONE S
FOREST MOVE BY COUNTERMELODIES
SECONDED BY COUNCIL HAD ONE
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF BEFORE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISTRICT.
>> THIS MEETING HAS HAD SO MANY
AMAZING THINGS IN.
IT'S EXACTLY WHY WE ALL WANT TO
BE ON THIS BODY IS TO DO THIS
KIND OF WORK AND SO NOW I HAVE
TO TAKE US INTO THE TECHNICAL
SO APPROVAL OF THIS ORDINANCE
WILL REZONE THIS PROPERTY FROM
OUR FORESE MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL TO PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT TO PERMIT ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOOT ONE
HUNDRED SIXTY SIX FOOT TALL
STRUCTURE CONTAINING 228
RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND SEVEN
HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE
BEDROOMS THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT IN
THE CURRENT DISTRICT IS THIRTY
FEET.
THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE EXCEEDS
BY 135 FEET STAFF
RECOMMENDATION WAS NO AND THE
VOTE ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WAS SIX FOUR TWO AGAINST.
I WOULD LIKE TO TALK ABOUT THE
STAFF'S MAIN CONCERN WHICH WAS
NOT THE DENSITY SO IT'S NOT THE
NUMBER OF BEDROOMS THIS THING
WOULD ADD BUT THE SIZE OF THE
STRUCTURE AND I'M QUOTING THE
AREA SURROUNDING THE SITE IS
PRIMARILY MULTIPLE FAMILY AND
GROUP HOUSING WITH STRUCTURES
OF VARIOUS SIZES AND HEIGHTS
BUT NONE APPROACHING THE SCALE
OF THIS PROJECT.
SO AND IT THAT THAT IT WOULD
PROHIBIT ANY SORT
OF TRANSITIONAL ZONING OR SCALE
AGAINST THE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE SOUTH AND
EAST.
THOSE COMMENTS MEAN OR ASK US
TO CONSIDER THOUGHTFULLY TWO
THINGS THE RELATIONSHIP OF A
BUILDING OF THIS SCALE TO ITS
SURROUNDING CONTEXT AND WHETHER
THE PROJECT PROVIDES SUFFICIENT
PUBLIC BENEFITS TO OFFSET ITS
SCALE.
I'M GOING TO SPEAK VERY QUICKLY
ABOUT THE PUBLIC BENEFITS.
THESE ARE ALL IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
IT MEANS THEY ARE PART OF THE
ZONING AND THEY MUST BE
PROVIDED THERE ARE
AFFORDABILITY ELEMENTS.
THE PUDI REGULATIONS REQUIRE A
MINIMUM OF 15 PERCENT OF THE
TOTAL UNITS TO BE DEDICATED AS
AFFORDABLE OR A CONTRIBUTION IN
LIEU OF UNITS WHICH IS USUALLY
PREFERRED BY JENNIFER HALL
OF THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION.
>> THE PETITIONER THEN IS
REQUIRED TO PAY FOUR POINT SIX
MILLION BUT HAS ADDED TO THAT A
VOLUNTARY TOP UP OF NINETY
EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS WHICH
BRINGS THE TOTAL CASH IN LIEU
PAYMENT
TO FOUR POINT SEVEN
MILLION WHICH CAN BE LEVERAGED
UP TO AS MUCH TO TWENTY FIVE TO
ONE TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS TO ONE
IN ADDITION TO THE NINETY EIGHT
THOUSAND DOLLARS TOP-UP
CONTRIBUTION.
THE PROJECT WILL MAKE A
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION OF FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO THE ANN
HARBOR HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION TO USE FOR
SUSTAINABILITY UPGRADES TO
EXISTING OR PROPOSED HGC
PROPERTIES LOCATED IN THE
CENTRAL AREA OF THE CITY.
SO IT REQUIRED FOUR POINT SIX
MILLION WILL BENEFIT THE PUBLIC
BUT SHOULD IT COUNT AS A PUBLIC
BENEFIT FOR PURPOSES JUSTIFYING
THE ZONING CATEGORY FOR THIS
PROJECT AND DO WE NEED OTHER
PUBLIC BENEFITS FOR THAT?
THERE ARE OTHER PUBLIC
BENEFITS.
I WILL GO QUICKLY AS QUICKLY
UNTIL I GET CAUGHT UP THROUGH
THE SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS THE
PROJECT OFFERS A SHELTER IN
PLACE COMMUNITY SPACE FOR
RENTERS.
ITS GENERATOR IS SIZED TO HEAT
COMMON SPACES.
THE SITE IS LOCATED NEXT DOOR
TO AN URBAN FOREST FRAGMENT.
THE DEVELOPER HAS DONE A SHADE
STUDY AND STEPPED BACK THEIR
STORIES TO PROTECT IT.
THEY WILL ALSO PROPOSE A 15
FOOT GREEN BUFFER ZONE ALONG TO
KNOW THE PROPERTY THE NORTHERN
PROPERTY DON'T REMEMBER.
YEP, SO AS NOT TO AFFECT THE
ROOTS OF THOSE TREES.
>> I WILL COME BACK.
IT IS UP AND I'VE BEEN REMINDED
THAT WE HAVE SOME STAFF WAITING
TO PROVIDE ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
PROVIDED THAT ARE GIVEN TIME
AND SO STAFF PRODUCTION.
>> MR. FOURNIER.
YES.
JENNIFER HALL FROM THE HOUSING
COMMISSION SHOULD BE JOINING US
VIRTUALLY AND HANK KELLY IS
ALSO AVAILABLE STAFF
INTRODUCTION.
THERE WERE SOME QUESTIONS
RECEIVED BY STAFF FROM COUNCIL
MEMBERS IN BETWEEN.
>> YOU'RE TOO LATE FOR THEM TO
BE PROVIDED IN WRITING SO
THEY'RE BEING PROVIDED HERE.
>> WELL, STAFF WILL REPEAT IT.
STAFF REPEATEDLY AND YOUR STAFF
IS AVAILABLE ON ZOA SUPERB
.
GO AHEAD, JENNIFER OR HANK,
PLEASE PROCEED.
>> I NEED TO GET THE QUESTION
BECAUSE WE'RE IN TRANSITION.
>> THE QUESTION IS AS WAS
PROVIDED IN STEPHANIE
PRODUCTIONS, OK, THIS IS
CORRECT IN I DID AN ANALYSIS
OF I ACTUALLY DON'T REMEMBER
WHEN ONE WAS SIX SEVEN YEARS
AGO TO LOOK AT HOW MUCH A
DOLLAR THAT WAS COMMITTED TO
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND HOW
MUCH LEVERAGE IN ADDITIONAL
FUNDS BASED ON ACTUAL OBJECTS
THAT UTILIZE THOSE FUNDS AND
THE AMOUNT WAS TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS PER LEVERAGE FOR EVERY
DOLLAR THAT WAS CONTRIBUTED AND
WHICH IS PRIMARILY THEN FROM
DEVELOPERS BUT ALSO THE CITY IS
HISTORICALLY KAJOL FUNDS INTO
THE HOUSING FUND.
WE HAVEN'T HAD MUCH CONTRIBUTED
IN THE LAST FEW YEARS SO I WAS
SUSPECT THAT IF I DID NOT
ASSIST WITH NEW FUNDING COMING
IN THAT DOLLAR LEVERAGE WOULD
BE LESS THAN ONE TO TWENTY FIVE
JUST BECAUSE OF THE INCREASED
HOUSING COSTS.
>> BUT VERY CONFIDENT BASED ON
OTHER PROJECTS THAT I'M WORKING
ON THAT IT WOULD LEVERAGE
ANYWHERE FROM FIVE TO TEN
DOLLARS FOR EVERY DOLLAR THAT'S
IN THAT FUND BECAUSE THAT'S HOW
YOU FUND ACTUAL AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECTS WERE ALL
OF THE UNITS ARE PROPOSING AS
YOU LAYER A MULTIPLE FUNDING
SOURCES TOP OF EACH OTHER?
JUST AS AN EXAMPLE WE HAD 12
DIFFERENT FUNDING SOURCES FOR
CATHERINE STREET PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
I'VE GOT CATHERINE DENHA THEN
GARCELON ON THE Q
THANK YOU MR.
TAYLOR.
>> A MONTH AGO WHEN THIS CAME
THE FIRST TIME I SPOKE ABOUT MY
EXPERIENCE AS A STUDENT LIVING
IN UNIVERSITY TOWERS I'M SOUTH
UNIVERSITY IN THOUSAND FIVE
WHEN I LIVED THERE THERE WERE
THIRTY NINE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE TOTAL
STUDENTS ENROLLED AT U OF M
LAST ACADEMIC YEAR THERE WERE
FIFTY ONE THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED
TWENTY FIVE TOTAL STUDENTS
ENROLLED AT U OF M WHILE THE
UNIVERSITY MUST BEAR SOME
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS
PROBLEM, THE REALITY REMAINS
THAT WHETHER WE LIKE IT OR NOT
WE DO IN FACT NEED MORE HOUSING
.
AS WE'VE HEARD MULTIPLE TIMES
TONIGHT, THIS PROJECT A
PROPOSED PROJECT WOULD BRING
TWO HUNDRED AND TWENTY EIGHT
NEW UNITS SEVEN AND THIRTY
THREE NEW BEDROOMS TO THE AREA
THERE OTHER CONSIDERABLE
BENEFITS THAT TWENTY SIX NEW
CHARGING STATIONS STORAGE FOR
NEARLY TWO HUNDRED BIKES
INCLUDING TWO BIKE CHARGING
STATIONS, OPTIONS FOR GROUND
FLOOR RETAIL LEED SILVER WHICH
ADMITTEDLY COULD BE IMPROVED AS
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT BEFORE.
BUT AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING
WITH NO NATURAL GAS HOOKUPS
EXCEPT TO SUPPORT BACKUP
EMERGENCY GENERATOR AND FOUR
POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS IS
TO OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND
WHICH WE JUST HEARD FROM MISS
HALL ABOUT HOW SHE IS ABLE TO
TAKE THAT MONEY AND LEVERAGE IT
INTO SIGNIFICANTLY MORE UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAN WHAT
THE DEVELOPER COULD BUILD IN
THIS PROJECT FOR THE SAME
AMOUNT OF MONEY.
YOU KNOW, WE HEARD TONIGHT
ABOUT CONCERNS THAT HIGH
DENSITY THAT THAT WITH THE
GROWING STUDENT POPULATION THAT
THE HIGH DENSITY HOUSING COULD
CONTINUE TO IMPACT NEARBY
NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT THE REALITY IS OUR HOUSING
CRISIS IS ALREADY IMPACTING OUR
NEAR CAMPUS NEIGHBORHOODS AS I
MENTIONED AT THE LAST MEETING
WHEN I WAS OUT ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL SPECIFICALLY IN THIS
AREA, I HEARD FROM LONG TERM
RESIDENTS ABOUT CONCERNS WITH
HOUSING AVAILABILITY DUE TO
MORE AND MORE HOUSES BEING
GOBBLED UP BY LANDLORDS USE FOR
SHORTER TERM STUDENT RENTALS
DRIVING UP HOUSING COSTS AND
IMPACTING LONG TERM UPKEEP AND
QUALITY OF THE STRUCTURES.
THIS PROBLEM EXISTS EXACTLY
BECAUSE WE AS A CITY AND YES
THE UNIVERSITY HAVE NOT KEPT UP
WITH THE NEED FOR MORE STUDENT
FOCUSED HOUSING NEAR CAMPUS FOR
ALL OF THESE REASONS I WILL BE
SUPPORTING REZONING TONIGHT
BECAUSE THIS IS EXACTLY WHERE
WITHIN A COUPLE OF BLOCKS FROM
CAMPUS WE NEED MORE STUDENT
HOUSING IF WE DON'T WANT MORE
STUDENT HOUSING PROLIFERATING
OUT INTO NEARBY NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILMAN BECAUSE
HE HAD ONE I THINK YOU KNOW
FIRSTLY I WANT TO NOTE AND I
KNOWLEDGE THAT, YOU KNOW, OUR
EXCLUSIONARY AND RACIST ZONING
LAWS HAVE PREVENTED US FROM
BUILDING MORE DENSE HOUSING IN
A VARIETY OF WAYS AND HAVE
HELPED TO BRING US TO WHERE WE
ARE TODAY.
WE ALSO AS A COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA STATED, MUST ACKNOWLEDGE
DESPITE THE MANY BENEFITS THAT
YOU HAVE AND PROVIDES OUR
COMMUNITY THE UNIVERSITY'S
EXPONENTIAL GROWTH OF STAFF,
STUDENTS AND OTHERS HAS
SIGNIFICANTLY CONTRIBUTED TO
OUR HOUSING CRISIS.
WE SIMPLY DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH
HOUSING SUPPLY TO MEET DEMAND.
THIS PROJECT IS IN ALIGNMENT
WITH OUR CLIMATE ACTION GOALS
OR GOALS TO BE COMING TO MAKE
HOUSING MORE AFFORDABLE FOR OUR
CITY TO BE MORE WELCOMING AND
EQUITABLE COMMUNITY.
>> AND AS JENNIFER HAS STATED,
WE'LL PROVIDE FUNDS TO BUILD
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
VERY IMPORTANTLY WILL PROVIDE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE MORE
ACCESSIBLE, WALKABLE AND VIABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTE FOUND
LAST YEAR THAT REMOVING ZONING
BARRIERS AND INCREASING HOUSING
DENSITY HAS POSITIVE EFFECTS ON
RENT STABILIZED, ESPECIALLY IN
AREAS WITH CONSTRAINED HOUSING
SUPPLY.
THIS WILL HELP TO FIGHT OUR
HOUSING CRISIS AND THE US
ENERGY AND INFORMATION
ADMINISTRATION REPORTS THAT
CARBON EMISSIONS IN CITIES WITH
HIGHER DENSITY ARE LESS THAN IN
MORE REMOTE SUBURBS THIS IS
VERY, VERY HELPFUL IN REGARDS
TO THE CLIMATE CRISIS.
WE'RE AT A CRITICAL POINT IN
OUR CLIMATE CRISIS FIGHT.
WE'RE PREDICTED TO BE A STATE
THAT'S GOING TO HAVE A MASS
NUMBER OF CLIMATE REFUGEES.
WE NEED TO MAKE CHOICES TO MAKE
MORE HOUSING AVAILABLE OR IT'S
GOING TO IMPACT ALL OF US.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, RACKMAN.
THANK YOU.
WHAT I WANTED TO SAY HAS BEEN
SAID SO I WON'T REPEAT SOME
OF THOSE POINTS BUT I DID WANT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THOUGHTFUL
PROFESSIONAL ANALYSIS AND
PERSPECTIVE ON THIS PRETTY WELL
ALSO ACKNOWLEDGING THAT IT WAS
VERY DIFFERENT FROM WHERE
PLANNING COMMISSION LANDED LIKE
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I LIVED IN
THIS AREA OF TOWN WHEN I FIRST
MOVED TO ANN ARBOR IN 2003 SO
I'M VERY FAMILIAR WITH THIS
AREA.
IT'S CONVENIENT AS A LOCATION
FOR STUDENTS TO LIVE AS WELL AS
HOW TO BALANCE AGAINST SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES.
YOU KNOW, I GUESS WHEN IT DENHA
SPOKE ABOUT THE GROWTH IN OUR
ENROLLMENT IN THE TIME THAT
HE'S LIVED HERE, I WANTED TO
SPEAK MORE RECENTLY TO THE
AMOUNT OF STUDENTS THAT HAVE
BEEN ADDED IN RECENT YEARS.
SO FOR FORTY FIVE HUNDRED
STUDENTS AND ONLY ONE THOUSAND
NEW ON CAMPUS STUDENT HOUSING
UNITS HAVE BEEN BUILT IN RECENT
YEARS.
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT HAS ADDED
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND NEW
UNITS.
SO IN OTHER WORDS WE ARE SHORT
OF HAVING A RENTAL VACANCY RATE
IS ESSENTIALLY ZERO.
RENTS CONTINUE TO CLIMB YOU
ENROLLMENT CONTINUES TO GROW AT
APPROXIMATELY TWO PERCENT A
YEAR OR ABOUT A THOUSAND
STUDENTS.
SO THIS DEVELOPMENT WOULD ADD
SEVEN HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE
BEDROOMS, STUDENT ENROLLMENTS
GROWING BY A THOUSAND A YEAR.
I JUST WANT PUT THAT IN
PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE THIS
ISN'T GOING TO FILL A NEED BY
ITSELF BUT IT CERTAINLY IS PART
OF THE SOLUTION I THINK FOR
THIS PUDI RUBENESQUE TO
CONSIDER HOW IT WOULD BE
ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE CITY AND
THAT'S A VALUE JUDGMENT.
SO HERE IS MY HOUSING FUND.
THE AMOUNT IS SIGNIFICANT.
I THINK WE JUST HEARD ABOUT HOW
THOSE FUNDS CAN BE LEVERAGED IN
A BETTER WAY BY GIVING THE
MONEY TO THE HOUSING COMMISSION
RATHER THAN BUILDING UNITS IN
THIS BUILDING ALL ELECTRIC LEED
SILVER CERTIFIED THERMAL URGING
TO INCREASE THE EFFICIENCY
OF THE BUILDING ENVELOPE AND
LAST BUT CERTAINLY NOT LEAST
BRINGING DESPERATELY NEEDED
HOUSING CLOSE TO CAMPUS.
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS OF THIS KIND
AMENITIES AND TRANSPORTATION
LINES THAT'S ENOUGH FOR ME TO
SAY IT'S ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE
CITY WHEN I HEAR WORDS LIKE
PROTECT CHARACTER PRESERVE
,
MAINTAIN AND FRINGE FINANCIAL
IMPACT PROPERTY OWNERS I AM
REALLY CONCERNED THAT THEY'RE
INDICATIVE OF VALUES THE
PRIORITY IS KEEPING THINGS LIKE
THEY ARE RATHER THAN MEETING
THIS COMMUNITY'S VERY REAL
HOUSING NEEDS NEXT TO CAMPUS
THAT CONTINUES TO GROW.
SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING US
TONIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
IT'S ALWAYS INTERESTING TO
LISTEN TO COUNCIL MEMBERS HERE
HOW WE'RE ALL INTERPRETING IT
WHICH IS TONIGHT SOMEWHAT
SIMILAR.
SO TO ADD TO MORE NUMBERS U
OF M HAS BUILT JUST TWO DORMS
IN THE PAST 30 YEARS NORTH QUAD
AND MONGAR AND THOSE ADDED
ABOUT A THOUSAND NEW BEDS IN
THE SAME TIME PERIOD.
MY CALCULATIONS ARE CORRECT.
THEY'VE ADDED FIFTEEN THOUSAND
MORE STUDENTS NOW WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT HOW MUCH THE PRIVATE
MARKET HAS ADDED AS WELL IN
TERMS OF NEW BEDS NOW U OF M IS
TRYING TO RECTIFY THIS DECISION
TO SOME DEGREE AND THEY DID
THIS BY DECIDING TO BUILD A NEW
DORM OR ELBEL FIELD AND THEY'RE
DOING THAT BY ACQUIRING PRIVATE
PROPERTY THAT'S CURRENTLY
CONTRIBUTING TO OUR TAX BASE
AND TAKING IT OFF THE TAX ROLLS
.
OBVIOUSLY IT'LL PROVIDE MUCH
NEEDED NEW HOUSING BUT IT'S
ALSO GOING TO CAUSE OTHER
DIFFICULTIES FOR OUR CITY AND
WE NEED WE AS A POLICY BODY DO
NEED TO TAKE THIS INTO ACCOUNT.
I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS
OF NEIGHBORS AND ALSO STAFF WHO
ARE RIGHTFULLY LOOKING AT OUR
CURRENT BUT OUTDATED PLANS THE
CONSOLIDATED LAND USE ELEMENT
OF THE CITY'S MASTER PLAN WAS
ADOPTED OVER A DECADE AGO.
BUT THIS PLAN AND WHILE IT'S
BEEN REVIEWED IT'S BASICALLY IT
WAS BUILT UPON RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT CAME MOSTLY ABOUT 30 YEARS
AGO.
THE CENTRAL AREA PLAN THAT
INFORMED THAT IS IN NINETEEN
NINETY TWO CENTRAL AREA PLAN.
THE REALITY IS OUR PLANS ARE
VERY OUTDATED WHICH IS WHY
WE'RE GOING THROUGH A
COMPREHENSIVE UPDATE RIGHT NOW
.
BUT WE ARE STUCK AT THIS MOMENT
OF TIME WHERE WE HAVE AN
OUTDATED PLAN, SIGNIFICANT
HOUSING SCARCITY AND WE ARE
PRESENTED WITH A PROJECT THAT
HELPS TO ADDRESS THIS.
NOW IT'S IMPORTANT WE HAVE DE
DENSIFY AS A BODY WHETHER OR
NOT THIS TRULY HAS THE
COMMUNITY BENEFITS THAT
JUSTIFIES A PRETTY LARGE ASK
FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND SO EACH
OF US IS INDIVIDUALLY HAVING TO
DECIDE AND IT'S DIFFICULT TO DO
ESPECIALLY IN THE FACE
OF RECOMMENDATION FROM OUR
STAFF.
BUT LOOKING AT THIS MYSELF, I'M
LOOKING AT THE SEVEN HUNDRED
AND THIRTY THREE NEW BEDROOMS
PRIMARILY FOR U OF M HOUSING
WHICH WE KNOW WE NEED THE FOUR
POINT SEVEN DOLLARS MILLION FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE BUILT ON
SITE BUT THAT WILL BE LEVERAGED
TO HELP FOLKS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
IT'S GOING TO BE THE FIRST ALL
ELECTRIC HIGH-RISE IN THE CITY
IT IS INCORPORATING ELEMENTS
OF OF PASSIVE HOUSE BUILDING
AND IT'S GOING TO INCREASE THE
TAX BASE BY THIRTY TIMES WHICH
WILL HELP FUND OUR CRITICAL OUR
GENERAL FUND WHICH ALSO FUNDS
BASIC SERVICES FOR OUR CITY.
SO THESE ARE THE CALCULATIONS
THAT I NEED TO MAKE RECOGNIZING
THAT IT'S MAYBE NOT A PERFECT
PROJECT AND THERE'S MAYBE NOT A
PERFECT ANSWER HERE BUT THESE
ARE THE ISSUES THAT WERE
WRESTLING WITH AS A COMMUNITY
SO I'LL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF THAT FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH IT'S ALWAYS
TERRIFIC TO HEAR MY COLLEAGUES
DELIBERATE.
I WAS SO RUSHING LAST TIME THAT
I MEANT TO SAY THAT IT'S BEEN
GREAT TO SEE SO MANY DIFFERENT
FACES HERE TONIGHT AND TO HEAR
THOUGHTFUL CONTRIBUTIONS AND I
DO UNDERSTAND THE I SYMPATHIZE
AND UNDERSTAND THE OBJECTIONS
OF NEIGHBORS.
I DON'T THINK THAT THERE'S I I
DON'T I THINK THIS IS ACTUALLY
A HARD DECISION.
I THINK WE'RE HEARING
THOUGHTFUL AND GOOD ARGUMENTS
FOR THE POSITIONS THAT PEOPLE
ARE TAKING.
BUT I THINK THIS IS A HARD
DECISION AND SO ANYTHING THAT
ANYONE SPEAKS FROM THEIR HEART
AND THEIR CARE AND THE LIFE
THAT THEY'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
IS IS NOT IT IS A FAIR THING TO
SAY.
I DID WANT TO GIVE VOICE TO I
VOTED FOR THIS ON PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I WILL BE VOTING
FOR IT TONIGHT.
I DID WANT TO GIVE VOICE TO
SOME OF THE POINTS THAT THE
SUSTAINABILITY STAFF RAISED AND
THIS I AM EXCITED TO SEE A TALL
ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING BECAUSE I
HAVE HEARD FROM MANY PEOPLE WHO
WORK IN THE TRADES THAT THAT
CAN'T BE DONE AND SO IT WILL BE
GREAT IF THIS BUILDING MANAGES
TO DO IT BECAUSE IT WILL BE AN
EXAMPLE THAT WE CAN POINT TO ON
PLANNING COMMISSION AND COUNCIL
AND SAY YES, IT CAN BE DONE IF
YOU HAVE THE RIGHT INCENTIVES
TO DO IT AND SO I THINK THAT
THAT'S VALUABLE OVERSIGHT HAS
POINTED OUT THAT THIS BUILDING
MAY BE AN ARBOR'S FIRST HIGH
RISE ELECTRIC BUILDING BUT IT
WON'T BE ONE OF THE FIRST
NATIONALLY IT IS HARDER.
IT IS THE MICHIGAN STATE LAW
MAKES IT MORE DIFFICULT TO
BUILD THIS KIND OF BUILDING
HERE.
SO I THINK THAT WE VALUE THIS.
THE DEVELOPER WILL ALSO BE
PURCHASING RENEWABLE ENERGY
CERTIFICATES OFFSETTING ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT OF THE
BUILDING'S ENERGY CONSUMPTION
FOR TEN YEARS.
THAT'S SIGNIFICANT.
SO THOSE ARE GOOD REASONS TO
SAY YES FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS, JUST
BRIEFLY ON THE SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS NOT I THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT.
I MEAN I'VE TAKEN TO HEART WHAT
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATION, THE FEEDBACK
THAT THEY'VE GIVEN US.
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, THEY
HAVE THEY HAVE ADVISED THAT WE
SHOULD BE ASKING THE DEVELOPERS
TO MEET A HIGHER STANDARD.
I'VE OPTED TO TO LOOK AT THE
HOLISTIC COMMUNITY AT THE
BENEFITS BEING PROVIDED BY THIS
PROJECT AND DECIDE THAT
HOLISTICALLY THIS PROJECT IS
MEETING THAT.
BUT I DO THINK THAT OUR OUR
NEEDS ARE SHIFTING AND OUR OUR
STANDARDS OF OF WHAT WE NEED
OUT OF PROJECTS MAY BE
INCREASING AND AND FOLKS SHOULD
BE AWARE OF THAT FURTHER
DISCUSSION I TO BE VOTING IN
FAVOR OF THE ZONING TONIGHT.
YOU KNOW, IN MY VIEW WE DO HAVE
A HOUSING CRISIS AND THE THE
STATUS QUO IS NOT ACCEPTABLE
AND WE HAVE THE STATUS QUO
BECAUSE WE HAVE WELL WE HAVE A
HISTORY AND I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT WE UNDERSTAND
THE CHALLENGES THAT THAT WE ARE
FACING AND THAT WE TAKE STEPS
TO TO ADDRESS IT AND WE ADDRESS
THE HOUSING CRISIS BY
AUTHORIZING THE BUILDING
OF MORE HOUSING HERE.
I BELIEVE IT IS OBVIOUSLY
DIRECTLY PROXIMATE TO CAMPUS
EXCITED ABOUT THE PROSPECT
OF AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING AND
SOME OF THE OTHER
SUSTAINABILITY OF ELEMENTS THAT
HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED.
I THINK IT WILL IT'LL IT'LL
AFFECT A CHANGE TO PROXIMATE
RESIDENCE.
IT IS THE INTRODUCTION OF A NEW
ELEMENT AND I RECOGNIZE THAT
AND RECOGNIZE THAT THAT THAT
HITS PEOPLE WHERE THEY LIVE AND
THAT THAT IS NOT THAT THAT IT
IS UNWELCOME AND THERE ARE AND
SO THAT'S THAT'S ACKNOWLEDGED
AND HONORED AS A TRADE OFF IN
THE END ALTHOUGH THAT THAT IS
EXISTS THAT DOES EXIST AND THAT
IS I THINK A VALID THOSE ARE
VALID FEELINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
.
THEY DO NOT IN MY VIEW OVERRIDE
THE THE OVERALL COMMUNITY
BENEFIT WITH PARTICULARITY THE
INTRODUCTION OF NEW BEDS, THE
SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS AND THE
THE MENTIONED AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PAYMENT WHICH ARE
CRACKERJACK STAFF WILL BE ABLE
TO LEVERAGE TO TO BUILD MORE
UNITS IN OTHER AREAS OF OUR
COMMUNITY THAN WOULD OTHERWISE
BE AVAILABLE TO BUILD HERE
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS PROVED
DID ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE SEVEN
TWENTY ONE S PLAN S FOREST PUDI
SITE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CASEY EDMUNDS SECOND I COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DB ONE
ON FABER POST
IT IS APPROVED C ONE IN ORDER
TO AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING A
PART OF SECTION FIVE 10 PART
TWO OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
OF TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR ZONING
OF SIX POINT FOUR ACRES AND C
ONE A R WITH CONDITIONS CAMPUS
BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
TO SEE ONE ACRE WITH CONDITIONS
AS AMENDED CAMPUS BUSINESS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ONE ONE
FOUR ZERO BROADWAY AND ON
BROADWAY REZONING MOVE BY
COUNTY AND REDISH SECOND BY
COUNCIL BRACKMAN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
TISH SO HERE WE ARE ASKED TO
AMEND A CONDITIONAL REZONING BY
REMOVING A CONDITION THAT
REQUIRES THE DEVELOPER TO BUILD
AN EIGHTY UNIT CONDO HOMEOWNER
PROJECT AND THE DEVELOPER WOULD
LIKE INSTEAD TO BUILD AN INFILL
PROJECT THAT WILL CREATE ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY SIX UNITS
OF RENTAL HOUSING.
THE SITE LOCATED ON BROADWAY
ACROSS FROM THE UM PARKING
STRUCTURES ON WALL STREET IS
WITHIN A STONE'S THROW OF A
MAJOR EMPLOYER A UM HOSPITAL.
IT'S IN WALKING DISTANCE
OF SHOPPING ENTERTAINMENT AND
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
THIS PROPOSAL ACCORDS WITH THE
CITY'S DESIRE TO SEE DENSITY IN
PROXIMITY TO SERVICES.
IT ALSO ACCORDS WITH THE
CURRENT POLICY ON PARKING WHICH
NO LONGER REQUIRES PARKING
MINIMUMS.
THE DEVELOPER WILL NOT BE
ADDING PARKING TO ACCOMMODATE
THIS THESE ADDITIONAL UNITS AND
IN FACT AT OUR PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING HE TOLD US
THAT IN THE TWO YEARS THAT THEY
HAVE BEEN OPERATING RENTAL
UNITS AT TWELVE HUNDRED
BROADWAY THEY HAVE LEARNED THAT
THERE IS AN ACTUAL PARKING
DEMAND OF POINT SIX SPACES PER
DWELLING UNIT.
>> SO IF WE WANTED A NATURAL
EXPERIMENT TO HELP US THINK
ABOUT THE CONSEQUENCES
OF GETTING RID OF MANDATORY
PARKING MINIMUMS AND TO THINK
ABOUT IF WE WANT TO ENACT
PARKING CAPS, WE ARE WE HAVE A
BEAUTIFUL NATURAL EXPERIMENT
HERE THAT SHOWS US WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN YOU HAVE HOUSING AND
PROXIMITY OF JOBS AND SERVICES
.
I DON'T THINK THAT WE NEED TO
DISCUSS THIS AT LENGTH GIVEN
THE HOUR AND THE INTENSITY
OF THE THINGS ON OUR AGENDA
THAT REMAIN.
BUT I I THINK THAT THIS MEETS
OUR MANY OF OUR OBJECTIVES
BETTER THAN THE ORIGINAL
CONDITIONAL ZONING DID AND I
WILL CERTAINLY BE VOTING TO
PASS THIS ON A SECOND READING,
YOU KNOW, IN A THEME FOR THE
EVENING I'VE WANDERED OVER
ANOTHER STAFF INTRODUCTION.
I HAVE AN THERE'S A REASON FOR
IT.
IT DOESN'T WORK DOWN TO MY
BENEFIT BUT THERE'S A REASON
THAT MR. FORNIA I UNDERSTAND WE
HAVE A STAFF INTRODUCTION.
>> WE DO.
MR. MAYOR, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALEXIS DE LEO AND HANK KELLY
ARE AVAILABLE TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL.
>> NO QUESTIONS, ALEXIS, THANK
YOU.
>> I STILL HAVE THE DEPARTMENT
BUT I HAD A QUESTION WITH TWO
PARTS.
>> THE FIRST PART IS WHAT WAS
THE CHANGE TO INCREASE WITHOUT
INCREASING THE BASIC FOOTPRINT
AND VOLUME REPRESENT APOLOGIES.
WHAT DOES THAT CHANGE?
WHAT WAS IT IS IT BECAUSE
OF THE CHANGE IN MIND AND ABOUT
WHAT TO OFFER?
WE KNOW THAT THE DEVELOPER
OFFERED PLANNED CONDOMINIUM
UNITS IN THIS BUILDING BE FOR
PRE SALE FOR SOME PERIOD
OF TIME BUT DID NOT GET ENOUGH
POTENTIAL BUYERS TO MEET THEIR
OWN CRITERIA AND CHOSE TO
CHANGE FROM AN OWNERSHIP FORMAT
TO A RENTAL FORMAT THAT CHANGE
ALONE DOES NOT TRIGGER THE PLAN
THAT IS OUTSIDE OF THE
PARAMETERS OF SITE APPROVAL
OF THE APPLICANT HAS TOLD US
DIRECTLY THAT THE APARTMENT
UNITS NECESSARILY HAVE A
SMALLER FLOOR AREAS THAN DO THE
CONDOS AND THAT THEY ARE
STRIVING TO ADHERE TO THE
PHYSICAL PARAMETERS APPROVED
FOR BUILDING BE IN KEEPING WITH
THE SPIRIT OF THE REZONING.
AND SO THAT'S WHY THEY HAVE A
VIRTUALLY IDENTICAL BUILDING IN
TERMS OF ABSOLUTE FOR AREA
SETBACKS IN HEIGHT AND THE SAME
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN THAT
CHANGED SHAPE AND THE INCREASE
IN UNIT COUNT THAT PROPOSED
CHANGES TO THE SITE PLAN
PERTAIN TO FLOODPLAIN
MITIGATION AND PARKING
REDUCTION SPECIFICALLY FROM THE
DIFFERENT FIRST FLOOR DESIGN
FROM A PODIUM TO A NEW CHIEF.
>> THE SECOND PART OF THE
QUESTION WAS WHAT GETS REPORTED
IN A TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS AND WHAT ARE THE
POTENTIAL OUTCOMES OF THAT
ANALYSIS WAS LOTS HAS BEEN
PROVIDED PRIMARILY FROM OUR
TRANSPORTATION STAFF AND THEY
SAY THAT MULTI-MODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
DETERMINE HOW THE
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM IS
CURRENTLY OPERATING, IDENTIFY
ANY CONCERNS WITH THE CURRENT
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM AND
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW THE
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK WILL BE
IMPACTED BY OR APPROPRIATELY
SERVE THE NEW DEVELOPMENT.
THE MULTI MODAL TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM INVESTIGATES ALL MODES
OF TRAVEL FOR QUALITY LEVEL
OF SERVICE AS WELL AS SAFETY
OPERATIONS AS IDENTIFIED IN THE
MANUAL THAT'S THE INSTITUTE FOR
TRAFFIC ENGINEERS AT OCCLUDE
NOT LIMITED TO THE VEHICLE
LONGSON THIS IS AFFECTED
SIDEWALK GAPS THAT EXIST THAT
IMPEDE THE ABILITY TO TRAVEL TO
AND FROM THE SITE AS A
PEDESTRIAN AS IT STOPS THAT ARE
OR ARE NOT ADA ACCESSIBLE
BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN QUALITY
LEVEL OF SERVICE IS CURRENTLY
BELOW DESIRED LEVELS.
>> IT IS AND THE IMPACTS THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT WILL HAVE
ON THE SAFETY PERFORMANCE OR
OUTCOMES OF AN INTERSECTION OR
CORRIDOR WHICH IS CRITICAL AND
LOCATIONS IDENTIFIED IS ALREADY
HAVING SAFETY NEEDS BY THE
ACHIEVING TOGETHER PLAN
GENERALLY TRANSPORTATION STAFF
SAY THEY DO NOT HAVE MAJOR
CONCERNS WITH SAFETY.
I WOULD LIKE TO ANSWER
MULTIMODAL AND SAFETY QUESTIONS
.
FOR EXAMPLE THERE ARE NEW
SIGNALS IN THE AREA AS WELL AS
THE NEW ROUNDABOUT WHICH ARE
DIFFERENT THAN WHEN THE PROJECT
WAS INITIALLY PRESENTED,
OPERATIONAL EVALUATION WAS
REQUESTED AND WHAT IDEALLY HAVE
BEEN PRESENTED DURING STAFF
REVIEW.
THE IMPACT IS NOT EXPECTED TO
CHANGE.
THIS PROJECT DID NOT UPDATE
IMPACTS TO THE MOTORIZED TRAVEL
TRANSIT OR SAFETY MEASURES.
THOSE COMPONENTS TRAFFIC IMPACT
STUDY BY REGIONAL TIAA TRAFFIC
ANALYSIS BEFORE LOCAL SAFETY
PLAN WAS PRODUCED.
>> SO THERE IS NOT RECOGNITION
ABOUT TIERED SAFETY LOCATIONS.
>> AND FINALLY I DO WANT TO
MENTION THAT PLANNING STAFF
ACKNOWLEDGED THE TRANSPORTATION
TEAM HAS RECOMMENDED DENIAL
OF THE PROJECT AS THE APPLICANT
DIDN'T PROVIDE THE MULTIMODAL
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
ON THE VEHICULAR TRAFFIC
ANALYSIS MODEL FROM THE
ORIGINAL FLIGHT PLAN.
BUT THE PLANNING TEAM IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF THE
FLIGHT PLAN REGARDLESS AS WE
WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
CONCLUDE THAT ANY OUTCOME OF A
NON MOTORIZED ANALYSIS WOULD
IMPACT LEVEL OF SERVICE
STANDARDS IDENTIFIED IN THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPED CODE WHICH IS
THE LOW STANDARD FOR APPROVAL
OR DENIAL OF A TRAFFIC IMPACT
ANALYSIS.
THANK YOU.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF C1
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED SI TO
FOR WHICH THERE WAS NO
INTRODUCTION IN ORDER TO ADD
CHAPTER ONE TO FOR INITIATION
OF TRAFFIC STOPS OF TITLE NINE
POLICE REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE STATE NO MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TO
COUNCILOR HARRISON THANK YOU
MAYOR TAYLOR TODAY JUST TODAY
AFTER OUR CITY CELEBRATED
JUNETEENTH I WANT TO UNDERSCORE
A TOPIC THAT HAS BEEN LONG TIED
WITH OUR SHARED HISTORY AND THE
CONCERNS OF THOSE DOING
BUSINESS VISITING AND LIVING IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THE LINEAGE OF AMERICAN
POLICING FINDS ITS ORIGIN IN AN
INSTITUTION WE HAVE SPENT
CENTURIES TRYING TO OVERCOME
SLAVERY.
>> HISTORICALLY SLAVE PATROLS
IN THE ANTEBELLUM SOUTH BORE
THE RESPONSE ABILITY
OF APPREHENDING RUNAWAY SLAVES
AND THWARTING POTENTIAL REVOLTS
AFTER THE CIVIL WAR.
THESE PATROLS SIMPLY DONNED A
NEW NAME TRANSFORMING INTO WHAT
WE RECOGNIZE TODAY AS FORMAL
POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
>> IT IS CRUCIAL TO REMEMBER
THAT THIS METAMORPHOSIS WAS NOT
WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE.
THE PATROL'S LEGACY LINGERED,
PERPETUATING DISPROPORTIONATE
TARGETING AND CONTROL OVER
BLACK PEOPLE.
WHY DID THIS HAPPEN?
PRIMARILY TWO REASONS STAND OUT
THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY WAS
NOT SYNONYMOUS WITH THE
ERADICATION OF WHITE SUPREMACY
.
SEVERAL WHITE SOUTHERNERS WERE
INTENT ON RETAINING THEIR
DOMINANCE OVER BLACK PEOPLE AND
THEY SAW THE EMERGING POLICE
DEPARTMENTS AS INSTRUMENTAL IN
ACHIEVING THIS.
MOREOVER, THESE DEPARTMENTS
WERE DEEMED NECESSARY TO
RESTORE ORDER AND THE POSTWAR
SOUTH WHICH WAS GRAPPLING WITH
CHAOS AND INSTABILITY.
>> THIS UNSETTLING HISTORICAL
LEGACY MANIFESTS ITSELF IN OUR
CONTEMPORARY POLICING PRACTICES
ACROSS THE NATION NOT AND NOT
JUST IN THE SOUTH AS EVIDENCED
BY CURRENT EVENTS FEDERAL
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CIVIL
RIGHTS INVESTIGATION FINDINGS
AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT CONSENT
CONSENT DECREES BLACK PEOPLE
ARE DISPROPORTIONATELY MORE
LIKELY TO BE STOPPED SEARCHED,
ARRESTED AND TRAGICALLY FATALLY
SHOT BY THE POLICE.
THESE STATISTICS STEM FROM THE
HISTORICAL CONTEXT OF POLICING
WHICH HAS BEEN ABOUT CONTROL
ESPECIALLY OVER BLACK AND BROWN
COMMUNITIES.
WE KNOW THAT THE HISTORY
OF AMERICAN POLICING IS NOT A
RELIC OF THE PAST BUT AN
ONGOING NARRATIVE THAT WE MUST
ACTIVELY SHAPE THE VESTIGES
OF WHITE SUPREMACY REMAIN
EMBEDDED IN OUR POLICE FORCES
AND BLACK AND BROWN PEOPLE
CONTINUE TO BE
DISPROPORTIONATELY TARGETED.
THIS IS WHY I AM INTRODUCING AN
ORDINANCE TO END LOW LEVEL
SECONDARY TRAFFIC STOPS AS ONE
OF MANY CRUCIAL STEPS TOWARDS
CREATING A POLICE SYSTEM THAT
IS TRULY EQUITABLE JUST AND
FAIR FOR ALL MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL CUNO
I WANT TO TAKE A MOMENT TO
RECOGNIZE AND EXPRESS THANKS TO
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON WHO HAS
WORKED TIRELESSLY ON THIS FOR
MONTHS WORKING WITH STAKEHOLDER
CHIEF METZER, THE CITY'S
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
THE AMOUNT OF TIME THAT HAS
GONE INTO THIS AND THE
THOUGHTFULNESS OF THIS IS
INCREDIBLE AND I'M ABSOLUTELY
AMAZED BY HER WORK.
IT'S NOT OK THAT WE ACCEPT
DISPARITIES IN THE RATE AT
WHICH BLACK DRIVERS ARE STOPPED
AND SEARCHED IN COMPARISON TO
WHITE DRIVERS.
WE KNOW OVER TIME THAT SINGLING
OUT ONE RACE OVER ANOTHER,
CONDUCTING SEARCHES AND YOU
KNOW, BEHAVING IN THIS WAY
ERODES COMMUNITY TRUST IN LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND ALIENATES
CITIZENS.
WE SHOULD WE CAN AND SHOULD DO
BETTER IN THIS ORDINANCE IS A
STEP FORWARD.
>> I'M PROUD TO CO-SPONSOR THIS
AND I HOPE MY PEERS WILL JOIN
US IN SUPPORTING IT TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU AGAIN.
CUSTOMER SARAGOSSA EDWIN, I
THANK YOU.
I TOO WANT TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON FOR HER
DEDICATED AND COMMITTED WORK TO
THIS
FROM THE DAY THAT SHE
STEPPED INTO OFFICE AND FOR
ALSO INCLUDING THE REST OF US
IN THIS PROCESS AND OUR
CO-SPONSOR OF THIS AND IT WAS
WONDERFUL TO SEE SO MANY
DIVERSE COMMUNITY MEMBERS SHOW
UP TONIGHT IN SUPPORT OF US.
WE'VE TALKED A LOT ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, THE STATISTICS SECONDARY
TRAFFIC STOPS THAT PUBLIC
SAFETY BENEFIT.
THAT'S SOMETHING I DO WANT TO
STRESS BUT DO CAUSE HARM
HUMILIATE AND EXPOSE
COMMUNITIES OF COLOR TO RISK
OF VIOLENCE AS WELL AS CRIMINAL
CRIMINALIZE POVERTY ALSO
DECREASE PERCEPTIONS OF SAFETY
IN THE COMMUNITY AND DECREASE
COMMUNITY TRUST IN POLICE.
>> I BELIEVE THAT WE NEED OTHER
WAYS THAT WE CAN PROVIDE
ASSISTANCE AND RESOURCES TO
THOSE WHO ARE HAVING OBSTACLES
DRIVING SAFELY.
I ALSO WANT TO MAKE A NOTE THAT
THIS ORDINANCE IS REALLY AN
INTERSECTIONAL EQUITY AND
EQUITY ISSUE.
THIS IS ALSO A DISABILITY ISSUE
.
THOSE WERE PULLED OVER BY
POLICE WHO ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES IN PART BECAUSE
DISABILITY IS OVERREPRESENTED
AMONG COMMUNITIES OF COLOR.
FORTY THREE PERCENT OF DISABLED
PEOPLE ARE ARRESTED BY THE TIME
THEY TURN TWENTY EIGHT 30 TO 50
PERCENT OF PEOPLE SUBJECTED TO
POLICE USE OF FORCE ARE PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES.
THIRTY THREE TO FIFTY PERCENT
OF PEOPLE KILLED BY POLICE OR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
SO THE RISK OF THIS OBVIOUSLY
AND OF BEING SUBJECTED TO
POLICE VIOLENCE INCREASES AS
THESE IDENTITIES INTERSECT WITH
RACE, CLASS, GENDER AND LGBTQ
STATUS.
SO THIS APPROACH ELIMINATE
SECONDARY STOPS IS NOT JUST
ANTIRACIST BUT STABLEST
COMMUNITY CENTERED AND
EQUITABLE WAY THAT WE NEED TO
APPROACH OUR POLICING.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
.
THANK YOU TAYLOR.
ACROSS THE COUNTRY WE'VE
WITNESSED TRAFFIC STOPS TURNED
TO TRAGEDY.
TERRY NICHOLS, ORLANDO
CASTILLO, DANTE WRIGHT TO NAME
A FEW.
BUT WE KNOW THAT THESE PROBLEMS
AREN'T NEW.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT FOR EVERY
TRAGEDY THERE ARE HUNDREDS OR
EVEN THOUSANDS OF OTHER
INTERACTIONS.
MANY LIKE THOSE WE HEARD FROM
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TONIGHT THAT
MAY NOT RESULT IN DEATH BUT WE
MUST ACKNOWLEDGE OUR RESULT
OF PROFILING OUR TRAUMATIC
HARMFUL TRIGGERING UNDERMINE
PUBLIC TRUST AND OUR FAR TOO
PREVALENT.
I WANT TO THANK THE MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY WHO CAME
FORWARD TONIGHT TO SPEAK OUT TO
SHARE THEIR EXPERIENCES AND TO
ADVOCATE FOR A POSITIVE AND
OVERDUE CHANGE IN OUR LOCAL
ORDINANCE.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO EXPRESS MY
EXTREME GRATITUDE TO COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON AND ALL THOSE
WHO WORKED WITH HER TO BRING
THIS ORDINANCE CHANGE FORWARD.
I KNOW FROM SPEAKING WITH HER
THAT WHILE THIS CHANGE MAY SEEM
FAIRLY STRAIGHTFORWARD TO A
CASUAL OBSERVER, IT COMES AFTER
HOURS AND HOURS OF RESEARCH AND
IS INFORMED.
I LIVED EXPERIENCE AND
CONVERSATIONS WITH COMMUNITY
STAKEHOLDERS MEMBERS INTERIM
CHIEF METZER CITY ATTORNEYS,
FELLOW COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
STAFF.
I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
BASED ON MY OWN CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT THIS ORDINANCE REVISION
THAT I'M PERSONALLY GRATEFUL
THAT WE HAVE A LOCAL CHIEF WHO
WANTS TO BE PART OF THE
SOLUTION AND IS WORKING WITH
COUNCIL ON REFORMS.
SO I'M PROUD TO SUPPORT MOVING
THESE CHANGES FORWARD TONIGHT I
LOOK FORWARD TO ADOPTION AT OUR
NEXT MEETING BUT WHILE WE ARE
TAKING THE FIRST STEP TO REFORM
OUR LOCAL ORDINANCE THIS
EVENING, I ALSO WANT TO
ENCOURAGE ALL THE MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY WHO SPOKE OUT
TONIGHT AND THOSE WHO WEREN'T
HERE OR COULDN'T TO CONTINUE
ADVOCATING FOR CHANGE AT THE
STATE LEVEL AS WELL.
OUR ORDINANCE CHANGES WILL ONLY
STRETCH AS FAR AS OUR BORDERS
AND ONLY IMPACT OUR LOCAL
POLICE.
SO WE NEED STATE LAW TO FOLLOW
US BANNING PRETEXTUAL STOPS
STATEWIDE.
SO FINALLY I WOULD ALSO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON FOR
YOUR TIRELESS WORK ON THIS AND
I WON'T REPEAT THAT.
I JUST THE EXTENT TO WHICH YOU
ENGAGED COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDERS
AND YOUR COLLEAGUES WHO PROUD
TO CO-SPONSOR THIS FROM THE
MOMENT YOU MENTIONED THIS TO ME
,I WAS I WAS ON BOARD AND AND
THAT WAS THAT WAS A WHILE AGO
AND IT TOOK A LOT OF TIME TO
GET TO WHERE WE ARE RIGHT NOW.
FOLKS WHO WATCHED OUR LAST
MEETING AND NOTICED AND LISTEN
TO THE REPORT THAT CAME
REGARDING TRAFFIC SAFETY DATA.
THE CASUAL OBSERVER MIGHT THINK
THAT THIS JUST CAME IN RESPONSE
TO THAT.
NO, IT WAS IT WAS WELL TIMED
BUT THIS HAS BEEN IN THE WORKS
FOR A LONG TIME AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE YOUR WORK ON IT.
I AGREE WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA THAT YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE
ARGUMENTS THAT FOLKS MAY HAVE
AGAINST THIS IS IS THAT WE ARE
DOING SOMETHING DIFFERENT HERE
IN ANN HARBOR AND THANK
GOODNESS WE DON'T HAVE A
REPUBLICAN LEGISLATURE RIGHT
NOW THAT WOULD PROBABLY JUMP TO
PREEMPT US FROM TRYING TO DO
THIS IN SOME WAY, SHAPE OR FORM
THROUGH NEW LEGISLATION.
>> BUT WHAT WE ARE DOING HERE
IS STARTING A CONVERSATION THAT
CAN GO BEYOND OUR BORDERS AND
DOING IT IN A IN A BOLD WAY
WITH WITH ENGAGEMENT FROM OUR
POLICE DEPARTMENT WHICH IS
REALLY IMPORTANT TO SUPPORT
THIS COUNSELING RACKMAN I'D
JUST LIKE TO ADD TO THE CHORUS
OF THANKS TO COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRIS AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
YOUR WORK AND LEADERSHIP ON
THIS BUT I'M ALSO REALLY
GRATEFUL FOR EVERYONE THAT
SHOWED UP TONIGHT TO PUBLIC
COMMENT JUST HEARING THE
EXPERIENCES THAT PEOPLE HAVE
HAD WITH THESE KINDS OF TRAFFIC
STOPS AND THE KIND OF TRAUMA
THAT THEY INVOLVE.
IT WAS JUST SO MOVING TO HEAR
FIRSTHAND EXPERIENCES AND I
APPRECIATE YOU SHARING THAT.
YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD BE
CRIMINALIZING THINGS THAT DON'T
HARM OTHERS OR WAS A SAFETY
RISK.
AND AS SOMEONE WHO CARES A LOT
ABOUT THE SAFETY OF OUR ROADS,
I WOULD LIKE THE ENERGY SPENT
ON THINGS THAT ACTUALLY HAVE TO
DO WITH PROTECTING THE SAFETY
OF ALL OF OUR RESIDENTS ON THE
ROAD.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS A MUCH
NEEDED STEP FORWARD.
I WOULD LOVE TO SIGN ON AS A
CO-SPONSOR AND AGAIN THANK YOU
FOR THIS WORK COUNCIL REDISH.
>> I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO THANK
MY WARD MAID FOR HER AMAZING
LEADERSHIP ON THIS.
IT WAS AN AMAZING THING TO WALK
INTO A PACKED COUNCIL CHAMBER.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN THIS SINCE WE
WERE ALL ELECTED SINCE BECAUSE
WE WERE ELECTED IN COVID AND
THEN IT'S JUST NEVER BEEN THIS
FULL AND THAT IS AMAZING TO
BRING OUT SO MANY PEOPLE AND
HEAR THEIR PASSION AND THEIR
THEIR CONCERNS.
SO THANK YOU AND PLEASE ADD ME
AS A CO-SPONSOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCILOR BRIGGS TO
JOIN THE CHORUS.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER HERETH HERSON.
SO CERTAINLY THE WORK THAT'S
GONE INTO THIS IS IS VERY
NOTABLE.
THE THE OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT
THAT WE'VE HEARD FROM THE
COMMUNITY IS IS ALSO
INCREDIBLE.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
HEAR VERY CLEARLY FROM OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT THIS IS
THIS IS THE DIRECTION THAT WE
THAT WE WANT TO WANT TO GO IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND IT'S
IMPORTANT MANY OF MY COUNCIL
MEMBERS COLLEAGUES HAVE SPOKEN
TO THE TO THE NEED FOR THIS AND
SO IN THAT IS VERY CLEAR.
I THINK TO TO ADDRESS THE
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS THAT I'VE
GOTTEN FROM RESIDENTS AROUND
MAKING THESE CHANGES.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THERE ARE OF COURSE
REASONS AT TIMES THAT ONE MIGHT
WANT TO HAVE ENFORCEMENT AROUND
THESE ISSUES AND THESE
ORDINANCE CHANGES DON'T PREVENT
THAT FROM HAPPENING.
A TICKET CAN BE MAILED TO A
RESIDENT OR TO A DRIVER I
SHOULD SAY WHO HAS HAS ONE
OF THESE VIOLATIONS AND THAT'S
IMPORTANT TO NOTE BECAUSE AT
TIMES THERE ARE REASONS WE
MIGHT WANT TO ENFORCE THIS BUT
THERE IS NO REASON THAT WE NEED
TO STOP A DRIVER FOR ANY
OF THESE ISSUES.
THEY ARE NOT ISSUES THAT CAN BE
CHANGED AT THE MOMENT.
THEY ARE NOT SAFETY ISSUES AND
SO I THINK WE ARE DEFINITELY
HEADING IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
IN TERMS OF HOW WE ARE CHANGING
THE OUR ENFORCEMENT SO THAT WE
CAN HAVE MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYBODY IS SAFE.
WE HAVE HEARD FROM FORMER LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER ABOUT HOW
THAT IMPROVES THE SAFETY OF OF
POLICE OFFICERS AND WE'VE HEARD
LOUD AND CLEAR FROM THE
COMMUNITY HOW THIS CAN IMPACT
THE THE SAFETY OF OF OF DRIVERS
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON, THANK YOU.
>> HERE I GIVE YOU MY WORD
ABOUT THIS.
I JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT WE
MUST ACKNOWLEDGE THE FEAR,
STRESS AND TRAUMA BLACK AND
BROWN COMMUNITIES FACE AND
LOVED ONES ARE SIMPLY OUT
DRIVING THIS FEAR AS AN
ABSTRACT OR UNFOUNDED.
IT'S GROUNDED IN HISTORY AND
THE HISTORY OF RACIAL
PROFILING, DISCRIMINATION,
DISPROPORTIONATE NUMBER
OF POLICE VIOLENCE INCIDENTS
TOWARDS BLACK PEOPLE.
THE TRAUMA ASSOCIATED WITH THIS
FEAR IS IMMENSE.
MOTHERS MAY FIND THEMSELVES IN
A STATE OF PERPETUAL PERPETUAL
ANXIETY ALWAYS WORRYING ABOUT
THEIR CHILDREN.
THIS CONSTANT FEAR CAN BE TWO
CONDITIONS LIKE CHRONIC
ANXIETY, DEPRESSION AND EVEN
PTSD.
BLACK CHILDREN, TEENAGERS AND
ADULTS WHO EXPERIENCE THESE
POLICE DEATHS LIVE WITH THIS
TRAUMA.
MANY HAVE GROWN TO ASSOCIATE
DRIVING WITH FEAR AND STRESS
RATHER THAN FREEDOM AND
INDEPENDENCE EVERY POLICE STATE
NO MATTER HOW ROUTINE OR MINOR
CARRIES THE RISK OF ESCALATING
TO A DANGEROUS OR LIFE
THREATENING SITUATION THAT
VIOLATES SOMEONE'S CIVIL AND
HUMAN RIGHTS.
ADDITIONALLY, THE FINANCIAL
BURDEN OF THESE LOW LEVEL STOPS
CAN BE SIGNIFICANT FINES AND
FEES ASSOCIATED WITH TRAFFIC
VIOLATION OR OTHER LOW LOW
LEVEL SECONDARY TRAFFIC STOPS
CAN LEAD TO FINANCIAL STRESS
ESPECIALLY ESPECIALLY POOR
FAMILIES ALREADY ECONOMICALLY
CHALLENGED THE ADDED COST
OF LEGAL REPRESENTATION OR THE
BURDEN OF NAVIGATING COMPLEX
LEGAL SYSTEMS WITHOUT IT CAN
QUICKLY
ACCUMULATE.
AS WE CONSIDER THIS ORDINANCE
WE MUST KEEP IN MIND THE LAYERS
OF FEAR, TRAUMA AND FINANCIAL
BURDEN ASSOCIATED WITH THESE
LOW LEVEL SECONDARY TRAFFIC
STOPS.
LET US ACKNOWLEDGE THE REALITY
OF LIVING WITH THIS FEAR AND
WORK TOWARDS THE REFORM THAT
NOT ONLY RESPECTS THE
COMFORT OF ALL OF OUR RESIDENTS
BUT ALSO SUPPORTS THE NEEDS
OF OUR ECONOMICALLY
DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITY MEMBERS
AND PROHIBITING LOW LEVEL
SECONDARY TRAFFIC STOPS.
WE TAKE ONE STEP CLOSER TO
MAKING OUR CITY A PLACE WHERE
ALL RESIDENTS CAN LIVE WITHOUT
FEAR, WITH DIGNITY.
THEY NEED TO QUICKLY ADD THAT
IN REREADING SECTION E IN
PREPARATION FOR THE FIRST
READING I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO
AMEND THE LANGUAGE FOR GREATER
CLARITY BECAUSE THE CURRENT
LANGUAGE DOES NOT FULLY REFLECT
MY INTENTION WITH RESPECT TO
TALUM.
>> SO AM I DOING THIS RIGHT?
PLEASE.
SO TO CLARIFY SECTION E I WOULD
LIKE TO AMEND TO READ THE
FOLLOWING CRACKED BROKEN OR
BURNED OUT TAIL LAMP OR AT
LEAST ONE TAIL LAMP REMAINS
FUNCTIONAL AND PROPERLY
ILLUMINATED AND I SENT THAT TO
MISS BEAUDRY EARLIER.
IS THERE A SECOND DISTRIBUTED
SECOND BY COUNCIL BRITISH?
>> IT'S MY IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING IF I CAN JUST
INTERJECT THAT THAT'S BEEN
REVIEWED OPERATIONALLY BY BOTH
ATTORNEY AND PD AND THAT BOTH
ARE WITHOUT OBJECTION THE
CORRECT YES.
>> IS THAT IS THIS AMENDMENT
ONLY THE BODY FURTHER
DISCUSSION FOR MY PART I'M I'M
EXCITED THIS IS MOVING FORWARD.
IT'S IT'S INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT
THAT WE AS A MUNICIPAL
GOVERNMENT ASSURE OUR RESIDENTS
THAT OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT FOCUS
IS IS ALWAYS THE PROMOTION
OF PUBLIC SAFETY PERFORMED WITH
PROFESSIONALISM WITHOUT BIAS OR
FAVOR THE THE SECONDARY STOPS
ADDRESSED BY THIS ORDINANCE ARE
NOT NECESSARY TO AFFECT PUBLIC
SAFETY.
CRUCIALLY, HOWEVER, THEY
UNNECESSARILY DISRUPT THE LIVES
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
THEY CORRODE TRUST AND
CONFIDENCE BETWEEN PD AND THE
COMMUNITY AND THEREBY AND FOR
OTHER REASONS AFFECT TRUE AND
REAL HURT.
I'M DELIGHTED THAT THIS IS
MOVING FORWARD AND I WOULD LIKE
TO THANK THE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON HER AND THE
CO-SPONSORS AND FOR THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT CHIEF CHIEF WITH
PARTICULARITY FOR WORKING WITH
THE SPONSORS ON THIS RESOLUTION
STAFF AS A WHOLE WORKING WITH
SPONSORING THIS RESOLUTION AND
WOULD LIKE TO ALSO RECOGNIZE
OUR COMMON COMMITMENT
COMMITMENT TO MAKE ANN ARBOR A
PLACE WHERE WE'RE ALL WELCOME
AND WE'RE ALL KNOW THAT THEY
ARE SAFE AND THAT THEY WILL BE
RESPECTED.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE
POST IT IS APPROVED C THREE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION TWO
ONE AND TO ADD SECTION TWO ONE
THREE TO CHAPTER TWENTY SIX
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT TITLE TO
UTILITIES AND SERVICES OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVE ACCOUNTS INTERCRANIAL BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C THREE
COUNCIL MARCANO SO THIS IS A
VERY FANCY SOUNDING ORDINANCE
CHANGE WHEN IT'S REALLY
SOMETHING THAT I THINK MOST
OF US ASSUMED WAS ALREADY LEGAL
THIS ALLOWS FOR THE CURBSIDE
PLACEMENT OF HOUSEHOLD ITEMS IN
ORDER TO FUEL OUR GOALS TO
ACHIEVING A CIRCULAR ECONOMY.
SO IF YOU HAVE A DRESSER YOU NO
LONGER WANT YOU CAN SET IT OUT
IN FRONT OF YOUR HOUSE AND A
NEIGHBOR CAN PICK IT UP
HOUSEHOLD ITEMS OR APPLIANCES,
BIKES, KITCHEN GADGETS, GARDEN
TOOLS, ET CETERA MUST BE IN
GOOD CONDITION.
THEY CAN BE PLACED NEAR THE
CURB FOR NO MORE THAN FORTY
EIGHT CONTINUOUS HOURS A PERSON
MAY ONLY PLACE HOUSEHOLD ITEMS
IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY IN
FRONT OF THEIR PROPERTY OWNED
OR OCCUPIED BY THAT PERSON.
THEY MAY NOT BE PLACED IN THE
ROADWAY, SIDEWALK OR OTHER PATH
OF TRAVEL.
THEY MAY NOT CREATE A VISION OR
PHYSICAL DESTRUCTION FOR
PEDESTRIANS, VEHICLE OPERATORS
OR BICYCLISTS AND THEY MUST BE
CLEARLY LABELED THAT THEY ARE
INTENDED FOR DONATION OR REUSE.
SO REALLY THIS ORDINANCE JUST
PUTS AND MAKES LEGAL WHAT MANY
OF US ALREADY DO.
AND I WANT TO THANK WARD FIVE
NEIGHBOR WHO BROUGHT THIS TO
OUR ATTENTION AFTER THEY WERE
ACTUALLY FINED FOR DOING US AND
KIND OF SCRATCH THEIR HEAD TO
WONDER WHY THEY WERE FINED WHEN
THEY SEE IT HAPPENING ALL OVER
TOWN.
SO THIS REALLY CLOSES A GAP AND
I THINK IT PROMOTES EXACTLY
WHAT WE WANT IN TERMS OF REDUCE
AND REUSE AND RECYCLE.
SO I AM PROUD TO BRING THIS
FORWARD FOR CONSIDERATION
TONIGHT AND I HOPE MY
COLLEAGUES WILL JOIN ME IN
SUPPORT FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL.
>> REDISH I'M HAPPY TO BE A
CO-SPONSOR ON THIS ORDINANCE.
I AGREE THAT IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE NOT TARGET
PEOPLE FOR BEHAVIOR THAT WE
SEEK TO PROMOTE AS PART OF A
TWO ZERO PLAN, PARTICULARLY
STRATEGY FIVE THE CIRCULAR
ECONOMY STRATEGY THAT SEEKS TO
PROMOTE REUSE REPAIR
REGENERATION OF MATERIAL
RESOURCES THROUGH ACTIVITIES
SUCH AS SWAPPING DONATION AND
MORE.
SO I THINK ABOUT THIS AS THE
POP UP THRIFT STORES ORDINANCE
AND THOUGH I CO-SPONSOR I WOULD
LIKE TO PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT MY
BODY I SENT IT TO YOU EARLIER.
DO YOU NEED ME TO SEND IT AGAIN
NOW WILL YOU PLEASE CIRCULATE
IT AND I'LL READ IT.
THANK YOU.
SO TO SECTION TWO COLON
THIRTEEN ONE A IT CURRENTLY
READS THAT ITEMS CAN BE PLACED
FOR MORE THAN FORTY EIGHT
CONTINUOUS HOURS.
MY AMENDMENT WOULD BE HOUSEHOLD
ITEMS IN GOOD CONDITION
INTENDED FOR DONATION OR REUSE
BY OTHERS MAY BE PLACED NEAR
THE CURB SUBJECT TO THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS A
HOUSEHOLD ITEMS MUST BE PLACED
NEAR THE CURB STARTING AT NOON
FRIDAYS AND MUST BE REMOVED BY
SUNDAY BY 5PM AFTER FIFTY THREE
HOURS A PERSON MAY REPLACE
HOUSEHOLD ITEMS ETC. ETC. ETC.
SO THE THE MAJOR CHANGE HERE
AND ATTORNEY RIZA'S HAS DUBBED
IT THERE'S A FLOATING FORTY
EIGHT VERSION AND THERE'S THE
WEEKEND EDITION VERSION AND I'M
ADVOCATING FOR THE WEEKEND
EDITION VERSION SO WE NEED TO
MOVE SOMETHING RIGHT.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR DENHA.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILOR AND THEN
I'LL JUST FINISH SAYING THAT I
DO THIS FOR TWO REASONS.
ONE IS I THINK THAT POP UP
THRIFT STORES WOULD BE MORE
USEFUL TO THOSE WHO WANT TO
SHOP THERE.
IF YOU KNEW WHEN THEY WOULD
HAPPEN YOU WON'T KNOW WHERE
THEY WILL HAPPEN.
BUT AT LEAST YOU KNOW WHEN THEY
WILL HAPPEN.
AND SECOND, WE RECEIVED SOME
FAIRLY STRONGLY WORDED CONCERNS
FROM BOTH SOLID WASTE STAFF AND
COMMUNITY STANDARDS STAFF, BOTH
OF WHOM WILL BE CHARGED WITH
IMPLEMENTING THIS ORDINANCE AND
COMMUNITY STANDARDS IS
CONCERNED THAT THEY WILL
RECEIVE A NEIGHBOR'S COMPLAINT
CALL ABOUT THINGS ON THE CURB
AND IN THE FLOATING FORTY EIGHT
VERSION IT'LL BE THERE'S NO WAY
FOR COMMUNITY STANDARDS TO KNOW
HOW LONG THE ITEMS HAVE BEEN
OUT THERE AND SO THEY'RE GOING
TO GET PRESSURE FROM BOTH SIDES
OF THE OF A CONVERSATION BOTH
THE PERSON WHO COMPLAINS ABOUT
THE STUFF AND THE PERSON WHO
PUT IT OUT AND WILL SAY IT'S
ONLY BEEN THERE FIVE MINUTES
AND SARAH MASON THE SOLID WASTE
AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY SORT
OF HEAD BELIEVES THAT A BETTER
APPROACH WOULD BE TO HAVE THE
SWAP OPTION AVAILABLE DURING A
DEFINED PERIOD NOT ONLY BECAUSE
IT WILL MAKE ENFORCEMENT MORE
STRAIGHTFORWARD BUT IT MAKES
PROMOTING THE PROGRAM AS PART
OF A TWO ZERO EASIER.
THE IDEA IS TO GIVE PEOPLE NEW
WAYS TO SHOP AND SO SCHEDULING
THIS THING DURING A DEFINED
TIME PERIOD COULD MAKE IT
EASIER FOR IT TO BECOME AN
EVENT.
WE WOULD KNOW HEY WEEKEND I'M
GOING TO GO FOR A WALK AND GO
FOR A CURBSIDE SHOPPING SPREE
WITH MY FRIEND AND SHE CAN HELP
ME CARRY SOME STUFF HOME SO
PUTTING IT OUT THERE IT'S I
DON'T THOUGH I FRIENDLY TOWARDS
MY COLLEAGUES I DON'T THINK
THIS IS A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT SO
THERE SHOULD PROBABLY BE SOME
DELIBERATION AND I THINK WE ALL
AGREE THAT WHATEVER WE DO IT
WILL BE BETTER THAN WHAT WE ARE
DOING NOW WHICH IS WRITING
PEOPLE TICKETS FOR THINGS WE
LIKE THEM TO DO.
>> SO IN THAT SPIRIT, FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S YES.
SO WE'RE ALL EXCITED ABOUT THIS
BUT WE DECIDED THIS WAS AN
ELEMENT IT WAS PROBABLY
WORTHWHILE FOR THIS IS THE ONE
ELEMENT THAT WE REALLY WANTED
SOME BROAD COUNCIL INPUT ON IN
TERMS OF HOW THIS ULTIMATELY
GETS STRUCTURED.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
MENTIONED, WE BROUGHT THIS
FORWARD BECAUSE OF YOU KNOW,
RESIDENTS ARE GETTING TICKETS
FOR THIS OR SOMETHING THAT WE
ACTUALLY THINK IS A GOOD IDEA.
I THINK PROBABLY MOST OF PUT
ITEMS OUT AT THE CURB AT TIMES
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT I THINK
WE CERTAINLY MOST FOLKS MOST
RESIDENTS ARE NOT AWARE THAT
THEY CAN'T DO THIS.
I WOULD SUSPECT AND THEY WILL
CONTINUE TO DO THIS AND WE WANT
THEM TO SEE THIS IS THIS IS A
GOOD PIECE FROM MY PERSPECTIVE.
I THINK THE SIMPLER WE MAKE IT,
THE BETTER THE REALITY IS IS
THAT FOLKS ARE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO PUT ITEMS OUT AND I
DON'T THINK WE ACTUALLY
NECESSARILY NEED TO PROMOTE IT.
THERE ARE SOME BENEFITS
OF COURSE TO PROMOTING IT IN
TERMS OF IS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
MENTIONED ALSO THERE IS
OBVIOUSLY SOME BENEFITS FROM
THE ENFORCEMENT PERSPECTIVE.
IT MAKES IT EASIER FOR THEM.
HOWEVER, I WOULD SUGGEST THAT
YOU KNOW, IF IF THE STANDARDS
DOES GET CALLED OUT AND THEY
HAVE TO START THE COUNTDOWN
AGAIN IN AND ITEMS OUT FOR FOUR
DAYS AS OPPOSED TO TWO DAYS, I
DON'T SEE THAT AS A
PARTICULARLY DETRIMENTAL
ELEMENT TO OUR COMMUNITY IF
SOMETHING IS IS TAKING A LITTLE
LONGER.
SO I'M NOT WORRIED ABOUT THE
STRICT 48 HOURS ELEMENT.
WHAT I AM CONCERNED ABOUT IS
MAKING THIS AS EASY AS POSSIBLE
FOR RESIDENTS TO DO SOMETHING
THAT WE WANT THEM TO DO.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF FOR MY
PART I'M I THINK I'M WITH ALL
LOVE COLLEAGUES WHO ARE TEAM
FORTY EIGHT I THINK ON TEAM
WEEKEND EDITION ON THIS IT
STRIKES ME THAT THE SIMPLICITY
OF ENFORCEABILITY AND IN THE
SIMPLICITY OF MESSAGE TO
RESIDENTS ABOUT WHEN IT'S
AVAILABLE AND THE CREATION
PERHAPS OF AN EXPECTATION OF OF
RICHES ON THE CURB MIGHT YOU
KNOW MIGHT MIGHT MIGHT MIGHT
ENCOURAGE WHAT WE THINK OF AS A
BENEFICIAL ACTIVITY FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
.
I FEEL SOMEWHAT TORN BECAUSE I
FEEL LIKE WE'RE TRYING TO
DECRIMINALIZE AS HAS BEEN SAID
BEFORE, BEHAVIOR THAT MOST
PEOPLE DON'T EVEN KNOW IS
ILLEGAL.
IN FACT, I DIDN'T KNOW THIS WAS
ILLEGAL UNTIL THIS WAS BROUGHT
TO MY ATTENTION AND SO I HATE
THE IDEA THAT IF SOMEONE PUTS
IT OUT ON WEDNESDAY NOW IT'S
GOING TO BE POTENTIALLY STILL
NOT OK.
DO I LIKE THE IDEA OF HAVING
WEEKEND SWAPS OR YOU KNOW THAT
THINGS ARE GOING TO BE OUT?
YES.
AND I GUESS I'M ALSO RECEPTIVE
TO THE ENFORCEMENT CONCERNS AND
I THINK WHAT WE'RE ALSO TRYING
TO BALANCE IS WE DON'T WANT TO
CREATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
WE DO GET COMPLAINTS SOMETIMES
ABOUT PEOPLE LEAVING HEAPS
OF THINGS OUT FOR WEEKS WHICH
IS NOT GOOD EITHER.
SO I'M UNDECIDED AS OF THIS
MOMENT FURTHER DISCOUNTS NO
OF DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR WHO
THOUGHT THAT THIS WOULD HAVE
BEEN ONE OF THE HEATED
CONVERSATIONS TONIGHT I AM
GOING TO ECHO CONCERNS BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN THAT I'M
CONCERNED WITH THE MORE RIGID
THAT WE GET HERE I'M NOT
ACTUALLY LOOKING FOR US TO BE
IN THIS CASE.
I DON'T WANT TO SEE AN INCREASE
IN CITATIONS.
RIGHT.
I DON'T WANT TO SEE US CONTINUE
IF THERE'S A CONSISTENT PROBLEM
WHERE SOMEBODY IS LEAVING
SOMETHING OUT FOR A WEEK, IF
SOMEBODY IS LEAVING SOMETHING
OUT FOR A LONG PERIOD OF TIME,
IT'S LIKELY THAT THAT'S
PROBABLY GOING TO BE GETTING
DOCUMENTED BY A NEIGHBOR WHO
MIGHT BE COMPLAINING.
WE ALREADY KNOW THAT WE HAVE
SOME EQUITY CONCERNS AROUND THE
WAY THAT COMMUNITY STANDARDS
OPERATES ON A COMPLAINT BASED
BASIS.
AND SO I THINK I AM NOT GOING
TO BE SUPPORTIVE OF THE
AMENDMENT TONIGHT.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION,
ROLL-CALL ON THE AMENDMENT
PERHAPS STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA ON THE AMENDMENT
FOR DENHA NO.
LET'S WORK THE SORRY NOW WE'RE
TAYLOR.
YES BECAUSE OF OUR ER YES OUR
AKMAN NO MR BRIGGS NO ELSEWHERE
CORNELL NO ELLESMERE DISH.
YES THAT'S RIGHT HARRISON YES
THAT'S OUR SONG ABSENT
COUNCILOR WATSON ABSENCE MOTION
FAILS FOR THEIR DISCUSSION THE
MAIN MOTION
ON FAVOR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION
TO APPOINT BENJAMIN CALDERON TO
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
THIS IS A VOTING ITEM IS IT
NOT?
YES IT IS.
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER ONE
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
ONE AT ON FABER POST DISAPPROVE
WITH NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC TWO
RESOLUTION TO DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE ENGAGE
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FOR THE
ON THE REDEVELOPMENT OF THE
FEDERAL PLAZA AT 200 EAST
LIBERTY STREET MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER OR SECOND BY COUNCILOR
ACKMANN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
TWO BUT FOR ME THRICE SAME ON
ME MR FOURNIER.
YES THERE IS AN INTRODUCTION
ITEM AND I WILL HANDLE IT
TONIGHT.
WE HAD JUST A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS ON THIS ITEM THE
FIRST BEING WHAT IS KIND OF A
BRIEF HISTORY OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
WITH THE GSA ON THIS TOPIC?
AS THE COUNCIL WILL RECALL
THERE WAS DIRECTION FROM THE
COUNCIL TABLE TO TALK TO THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ABOUT FUTURE
USES FOR THE FEDERAL BUILDING
SITE AND IN THE COURSE OF THOSE
CONVERSATIONS WE HAD MORE
DETAILED CONVERSATIONS WITH
THEM ABOUT THEIR INTENTION TO
REDEVELOP THE PLAZA THAT IS IN
THE FRONT OF THE FEDERAL
BUILDING.
AND SO THROUGH THE COURSE
OF THOSE CONVERSATIONS WE
THOUGHT THERE MIGHT BE AN
INTERESTING OPPORTUNITY HERE TO
PARTNER WITH THE GSA AND
ENVISION AN EXPANDED FEDERAL
PLAZA USING EITHER SOME PORTION
OR ALL OF THE RIGHT OF WAY
ALONG THE 200 BLOCK BLOCK
OF LIBERTY STREET.
>> SO QUESTION TWO, WHY IS THIS
AREA BEING CONSIDERED FOR AN
OPEN STREET?
I'LL START BY SAYING THAT IN
JULY THERE WILL BE AN ITEM
COMING BEFORE THE COUNCIL TO
AUTHORIZE THE COST SHARING
AGREEMENT WITH THE DDA FOR A
CIRCULATION STUDY OR A SUB AREA
TRANSPORTATION PLAN FOR THE
DOWNTOWN PART OF THAT ANALYSIS
WILL INCLUDE LOOKING AT STREETS
IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA FOR OPEN
STREET INSTALLATIONS OR
KERBEROS STREETS OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
SO THE QUESTION IS WHY WOULD WE
PUT A RESOLUTION FORWARD TO
LOOK AT THIS AREA IN FRONT
OF THE FEDERAL BUILDING AND THE
ANSWER IS BECAUSE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS ENGAGING IN A
DESIGN STUDY THIS SUMMER TO
REDEVELOP THE FEDERAL PLAZA AND
SO THE IDEA HERE IS IS YOU
KNOW, WE LET THE THE SUBAREA
TRANSPORTATION PLAN FOR
DOWNTOWN MOVE FORWARD THE
CIRCULATION STUDY MOVE FORWARD
BUT ALSO SIMULTANEOUSLY ENGAGE
IN A PROCESS WITH THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO SEE WHAT A DESIGN
FOR SUCH AN INSTALLATION WOULD
LOOK LIKE IN FRONT OF THE
FEDERAL BUILDING WHEN THESE
PROCESSES ARE UNDERWAY
SIMULTANEOUS FIRSTLY WHEN THEY
CONCLUDE WE WOULD BRING BACK
RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE COUNCIL
ON YOU KNOW, WHAT WE WOULD
ACTUALLY DO.
SO WHAT THIS RESOLUTION DIRECTS
IS CONVERSATIONS AND
PARTICIPATION AND DESIGN BUT IT
DOES NOT ACTUALLY DIRECT THE
INSTALLATION OR REMOVAL OF THE
RIGHT OF WAY OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
SO HOW WILL THE COMMUNITY BE
ENGAGED IN THIS PROCESS?
ALL OF OUR PROJECTS LIKE THIS
IN THE CITY GO THROUGH OUR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT CHECKLIST
OR COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT TOOLBOX
.
WE WILL HAVE ROBUST ENGAGEMENT.
I WOULD ENVISION DISCUSSION
WITH DOWNTOWN STAKEHOLDERS
INCLUDING THE BUSINESSES, THE
MERCHANT ASSOCIATIONS CERTAINLY
CONSULTATION WITH OUR TO MOVING
TOGETHER TRANSPORTATION PLAN
WHICH I THINK ALREADY ANSWERED
SOME OF THE BIG QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE WHAT IN TERMS
OF DIRECTIONALITY FOR WHAT THE
CITY SHOULD PRIORITIZE
DOWNTOWN.
BUT WE WOULD WANT TO HAVE MORE
DETAILED CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
THE HOW AND THE WHEN AND THINGS
LIKE THAT AND THEN FINALLY WHAT
ENGAGEMENT IS IN STORE FOR THE
CIRCULATION STUDY AND WHAT IS
THE AIM OF THE STUDY?
SAME ANSWER ON THE CIRCULATION
STUDY.
YOU KNOW THE TWO MOVING
TOGETHER PLAN HAS DONE A LOT
OF THE HEAVY LIFTING AND
ENGAGEMENT IN TERMS OF FIGURING
OUT WHAT, YOU KNOW, PUBLIC
PRIORITIES ARE FOR THE WHAT
ENGAGEMENT FOR THE CIRCULATION
STUDY WOULD ANSWER FOCUS ON THE
HOW ON THE WHEN.
SO THERE WILL BE A STAKEHOLDER
COMMITTEE, A TECHNICAL
COMMITTEE.
THERE WILL BE PUBLIC
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CONSULTANT AND YOU KNOW, ALL
OF THAT WOULD KIND OF FEED INTO
A PRIORITIZE STATION FOR
TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES
DOWNTOWN IN TERMS OF WHAT THE
CIRCULATION STUDY WILL
COVER THE CONSULTANT SMITH
GROUP BY THE WAY, WHO ALSO WAS
THE CONSULTANT AND THE TWO
MOVING TOGETHER PLAN.
SO THEY'RE INTIMATELY FAMILIAR
WITH OUR TRANSPORTATION GOALS.
THEY WOULD BUILD A DOWNTOWN
MULTIMODAL TRAFFIC MODEL.
THEY WOULD EVALUATE THE
FEASIBILITY CONCEPTUAL PLANS
AND COST FOR UP TO SIX
ADDITIONAL BICYCLE
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS IN THE
DOWNTOWN.
THEY WOULD CREATE TECHNICAL
GUIDANCE AND PLAN IMPROVEMENTS
FOR TRANSIT PRIORITY STREETS IN
THE DOWNTOWN WORKING WITH EIGHT
TO THERE WOULD BE A STUDY
OF FIFTH AND DIVISION MOVING
THOSE TWO STREETS BACK TO TWO
WAY TRAFFIC AND THERE WOULD BE
FEASIBILITY FOR UP TO FOUR
PEDESTRIAN STREETS, SHARED
STREETS OR KERBEROS STREETS IN
THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
SO THIS RESOLUTION SIMPLY KIND
PUTS A MARKER ON THE IDEA THAT
BECAUSE OF THE WORK OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THIS CONCEPT IS
IS IDENTIFIED AS PART OF OUR
EFFORT FOR OUR CIRCULATION
STUDY AND THAT WE DON'T MISS
OPPORTUNITIES TO DO SOME BASIC
JOINT DESIGN WORK IN CONCEPT
WORK OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
IN ADVANCE OF THE DELIVERY
OF THE CIRCULATION STUDY
DISCUSSION OF DC TO COUNCIL
MEMBER BRAKE'S I THANK YOU AND
THANKS FOR THAT INTRODUCTION.
I THINK THAT LAYS THE
GROUNDWORK ABOUT WHY THE TIMING
IS IS SO IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE
DOING THIS IS SO NO WE'VE
RECEIVED A FAIR AMOUNT
OF FEEDBACK FROM DOWNTOWN
MERCHANTS AND MAIN STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION REGARDING KIND
OF QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS
AROUND PURSUING A FULL
PEDESTRIAN PLAZA IN THIS AREA
AND A I THINK THAT THE CASES
BEEN LAID ABOUT WHY WHY WE'RE
EXPLORING THIS RIGHT NOW.
I DID SEND AROUND SOME PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO MORE CLEARLY
ARTICULATE WHAT WHAT I I THINK
IS GOING TO BE A PART OF THE
PROCESS.
BUT ALSO, YOU KNOW, MORE
CLEARLY ARTICULATE WHAT THE
WE'RE LOOKING FOR OPTIONS SO I
CAN THOSE HAVE BEEN SENT AROUND
ALSO HAPPY TO READ THOSE OUT
LOUD SO PLEASE IN THE PUBLIC
AND SEE THEM SO ADDED A NEW
WHEREAS CLAUSE THE TO THE LAST
SECTION OF WHEREASES WHEREAS
WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
GSA THE OPPORTUNITY EXISTS TO
EXPLORE MULTIPLE OPTIONS FOR
CREATING A MORE VIBRANT AND
WELCOMING PEDESTRIAN PLAZA IN
THE TWO HUNDRED BLOCK OF EAST
LIBERTY TO THE NEXT RESOLVED
CLAUSE A SLIGHT ALTERATION
READS THE CITY COUNCIL DIRECTS
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
ENGAGE WITH THE GSA TO DEVELOP
A COMBINED VISION THAT
INCORPORATES PORTIONS OF THE
RIGHT OF WAY.
THIS AMENDMENT SAYS THAT MAY
INCORPORATE PORTIONS OF THE
RIGHT OF WAY TODAY TO SAY WE
HAVE NOT IDENTIFIED WHAT THAT
FINAL VISION JUST BE CLEAR THAT
WE HAVE NOT IDENTIFIED WHAT
THAT FINAL VISION MAY LOOK LIKE
AND TO THE FINAL RESOLVED
CLAUSE JUST ARTICULATING AT THE
END I ADDED AT THE VERY END
OF IT THAT COMMUNITY AND DOWN
DOWNTOWN STAKEHOLDER INPUT
WOULD BE WOULD BE INCLUDED AS
WELL.
>> SO IS THERE A SECOND BY
COUNCILOR SET FROM THE BODY FOR
ANYBODY?
>> COUNCILOR BRIGGS, YOU STOLE
THE FLOOR.
YEAH.
SO I WE CAN HAVE A CONTINUED
DISCUSSION AROUND SOME OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS WE'VE RECEIVED.
I HOPE THAT THIS HELPS TO
ADDRESS SOME OF THE CONCERNS
THAT WE HEARD ABOUT WHAT THAT
PROCESS IS GOING TO LOOK LIKE
AND AND THE FACT THAT WE'RE
GOING THROUGH A VISIONING
PROCESS AND WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
THAT VISION IS GOING TO LOOK
LIKE AT THE END.
BUT IT WOULD BE I THINK SILLY
NOT TO ENGAGING WITH THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AT THIS TIME
TO IDENTIFY WHAT IS THE WHAT'S
THE BEST WAY THAT WE CAN
REIMAGINE THIS AREA IN THE
SPACE OR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
.
CORNELL, THANK YOU.
JUST MY GUT IS THAT THIS FEELS
LIKE JUST A MINUTE OF THE TAIL
WAGGING THE DOG WITH REGARD TO
THE FEDERAL FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT'S INTENTIONS MAIN
STREET AREA ASSOCIATION
OF WHICH YOU KNOW, I SERVE HAS
BEEN FACILITATING ORGANIZING,
ENGAGING IN MANAGING THE
PEDESTRIAN STREET CLOSURES
SINCE THEY STARTED IN TWENTY
TWENTY.
>> WE KNOW FROM THAT EXPERIENCE
THAT PEDESTRIAN STREET CLOSURES
NEED TO BE ON BLOCKS WITH HEAVY
ENGAGEMENT FROM THE BUSINESSES
WITH A NUMBER OF THEM EXTENDING
INTO THE STREET ANY BUSINESS
THAT DOESN'T HAVE ANY SPACE
THAT DOESN'T HAVE BUSINESSES IN
THE STREET QUICKLY BECOMES THAT
SPACE.
HALF THAT BLOCK WILL CLOSE AT
FIVE O'CLOCK WHEN THE
GOVERNMENT SERVICES BUILDING
CLOSES THE GSA ISN'T A
DESTINATION FOR VISITORS OR
CITIZENS OUTSIDE A NINE TO FIVE
ABRACADABRA AFTERNOON DELIGHT
SAM'S CLOTHING ALL OF THOSE
CLOSE AROUND FIVE TO SIX PM.
SO IN MY MIND THIS IS NOT AN
ATTRACTION.
THE CLOSING OF THIS PARTICULAR
THOROUGHFARE DOESN'T MAKE SENSE
TO ME IN GENERAL I AM IN
SUPPORT OF CLOSING STREETS AND
MAKING OUR CITY MORE PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY.
I THINK I'D BE SILLY TO NOT
POINT OUT THAT ONE BLOCK FROM
THIS SITE FROM THIS PROPOSED
SITE WE HAVE LIBERTY PLAZA AND
WE SEE THAT BEING ADJACENT TO A
SPACE IT'S DEAD OUTSIDE
OF OFFICE HOURS HAS A NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON THAT SPACE VIBRANCY.
SO ADDING A SECOND PLAZA WITHIN
THE BLOCK OF THAT SITE DOESN'T
MAKE ANY SENSE TO ME EITHER.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS MENTIONED
I APPRECIATE THAT MENTIONED
HEARING A LOT FROM THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY WHO WOULD BE IMPACTED
BY THIS AND CONTRARY TO WHAT WE
HEAR FROM THE EXPERIENCE
OF MAIN STREET AREA ASSOCIATION
MEMBERS ON MAIN STREET WHO HAVE
EXPERIENCED THE STREET CLOSURES
AND SEE THAT IF YOU GO TO
DINNER, GO TO A BAR, YOU'RE
GOING TO GO SHOP SOMEWHERE ELSE
.
THEY'RE SUPPORTIVE OF STREET
CLOSURES ON MAIN STREET.
THE BUSINESSES THAT WE'VE HEARD
FROM ON THIS PARTICULAR BLOCK
DON'T SEE A BENEFIT TO IT AND I
REALLY WORRY ABOUT THE CITY'S
RESOURCES TO ACTIVATE THE SPACE
SO THAT IT'S NOT JUST
DEAD AFTER SIX O'CLOCK.
AND IF WE HAVE THOSE RESOURCES,
WHY AREN'T WE USING THEM NOW
FOR LIBERTY PLAZA AND FOR WEST
PARK AND OTHER AREAS WITHIN THE
CITY THAT WE KNOW NEED TO BE
ACTIVATED?
>> SO I WON'T BE SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBER AKTON, THANK
YOU.
I'M REALLY GLAD TO KNOW THAT
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WANTS TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH RECONFIGURING
THE SPACE.
I MEAN RIGHT NOW IT EXISTS AS
BASICALLY KIND OF A DEAD ZONE
WHERE NOTHING HAPPENS, WHICH IS
WHY WE ASKED FOR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE WITH US
IN THE FIRST PLACE I THINK BACK
IN NOVEMBER.
SO I THINK WE HAVE TO THINK
BIGGER THAN WHAT EXISTS THERE
NOW.
I THINK THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
TO ACTUALLY REFIGURE THE SPACE.
I THINK YES, IT WOULD HAVE TO
BE DESIGNED VERY THOUGHTFULLY.
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE HEARING IS
EVERYBODY WANTS A VIBRANT
ACTIVE DOWNTOWN.
NO ONE WANTS TO CREATE A SPACE
WITH PROBLEMS BUT I THINK THAT
WHEN DONE RIGHT, THESE KINDS
OF SPACES ARE EXTREMELY
DESIRABLE.
I GO DOWNTOWN PISSPOT IN OUR
DOWNTOWN THAT ARE CLOSED TO
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC ARE THE MOST
VIBRANT SPACES THAT WE HAVE.
I'VE BEEN OTHER CITIES THAT
HAVE WAY MORE THAN ONE BLOCK
WESTERNIZED.
THEY ARE VERY SUCCESSFUL.
THEIR DESTINATIONS FOR MANY
PEOPLE.
SO YOU KNOW THIS TO ME IS
DIRECTING US TO ENGAGE WITH IT.
IT'S NOT A DESIGN.
IT'S NOT SAYING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO DEFINITELY CLOSE DOWN
THE STREET.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO LEVERAGE
OUR DOWNTOWN CIRCULATION STUDY
TO LOOK FOR OPPORTUNITIES WHERE
THIS MAKES SENSE.
>> I'M HAPPY TO SUPPORT IT
FURTHER DISCUSSION I'M EXCITED
ABOUT THIS THE INITIATION
OF THIS THIS PROCESS AND THAT
INDEED IS WHAT THIS THIS
RESOLUTION DOES.
IT DOES NOT ESTABLISH A RESULT
THAT INITIATES A PROCESS AND
IT'S AN IMPORTANT ONE BECAUSE
WE HAVE A DOWNTOWN THAT THAT WE
I THINK SO MANY OF US ARE PROUD
OF .
>> BUT WE ALSO REALIZE COULD
AND OUGHT TO BE FAR BETTER THE
REQUEST TO THE ADMINISTRATOR AT
THE AT THE OUTSET WAS TO
DETERMINE WHETHER OR NOT GSA
WOULD BE WILLING OR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT BE WILLING TO BE
SUPER CREATIVE WITH RESPECT TO
THEIR THEIR BUILDING SPACE.
AND THE UNEQUIVOCAL ANSWER WAS
THAT THEY VIEWED THE THE
CURRENT FEDERAL BUILDING AS A
LONG TERM HOLD AND AS A
CONSEQUENCE IT IS A REALITY
THAT WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH.
WE DID HEAR FROM GSA THAT THEY
ARE EXCITED ABOUT REDESIGNING
THE PLAZA IN FRONT TO THE NORTH
OF THEIR BUILDING AND THIS IS
SOMETHING WHICH I THINK CAN BE
DONE TO THE BENEFIT OF US ALL
AND THAT WAS THAT IS WHAT THIS
PROJECT THAT IS PROBABLY WHAT
THIS RESOLUTION SEEKS TO DO
THAT IS TO WORK WITH GSA TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THIS IS A
PLAZA THAT CAN BE MADE
SUBSTANTIALLY BETTER, WHETHER
THAT INCLUDES PORTIONS OF THE
RIGHT OR PORTIONS OR ALL OF THE
RIGHT OF WAY IS SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE WORKING
THROUGH WITH PROFESSIONAL
STAFF, WITH GSA, WITH COMMUNITY
MEMBERS, WITH STAKEHOLDERS BOTH
PROXIMATE AND OTHERWISE.
YOU KNOW, I'LL NOTE THAT THERE
ARE SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN A PEDESTRIAN AND
LIBERTY STREET AND AN EXISTING
LIBERTY PLAZA.
>> IT IS PLAIN AND OBVIOUS THAT
THERE'S THERE IS EXISTING
COMMERCIAL ON ON LIBERTY
STREET.
IT IS A PLACE OF NATURAL
TRANSIT BETWEEN MAIN STREET AND
STATE STREET AND THERE THERE
ARE OTHER OTHER DIFFERENCES AS
WELL.
IT IS AT GRADE RATHER THAN THAN
BELOW GRADE.
JUST DO IT TO NAME A FEW OFF
THE TOP OF MY HEAD.
BUT BUT I DO WANT TO ASSURE
FOLKS BOTH IN THE COMMERCIAL
SECTOR AND THE RESIDENTIAL
SECTOR THAT THIS IS A THIS IS A
PROCESS WE ARE INTERESTED IN
EXPLORING IT AND PART
OF EXPLORING IS HEARING WHAT
ALL THE STAKEHOLDERS HAVE TO
SAY AND TAKING INTO ACCOUNT SO
THAT WE CAN BUILD THE DOWNTOWN
THAT MAKES US ALL PROUD.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANKS
MARY TYLER.
I WILL ADMIT I'VE GOTTEN KIND
OF BACK AND FORTH ON THIS ONE
ABOUT I GENERALLY AM RELATIVELY
SUPPORTIVE OF STUDYING.
I RECOGNIZE THAT THIS ISN'T A
COMMITMENT.
I THINK WHERE I STRUGGLE THE
MOST IS EVER A REALLY HARD TIME
ENVISIONING AT THE END OF THE
STUDY THAT WE WOULD COME TO THE
CONCLUSION THAT IF WE'RE GOING
TO EXPEND ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
IN BUILDING ANOTHER PEDESTRIAN
PLAZA OR PEDESTRIAN OR STREET
CLOSURE DOWNTOWN, THIS IS THE
BEST PLACE FOR IT.
>> I'LL ACKNOWLEDGE I'M A
LITTLE DISAPPOINTED IN THE GSA
ITSELF BECAUSE I WOULD SAY THAT
THIS IS NOT THE CURRENT USE
OF THAT SPACE IS NOT BIASED AND
BEST USED IN OUR DOWNTOWN AND
FRANKLY THE EXISTING BUILDING
AS PART OF THE REASON WHY I
DON'T SEE A PLAZA SUCCEEDING
THERE.
>> AND SO AFTER HEARING FROM A
NUMBER OF THE CONCERNS FROM
FROM MAIN STREET AND STATE
STREET BUSINESSES AND AND JUST
FRANKLY I WOULD LOVE TO SEE US
PUT SOME ADDITIONAL TIME AND
RESOURCES INTO TRYING TO MAKE
MAIN STREET PERMANENT, TRYING
TO EXPLORE OTHER PARTS THAT
MIGHT BE A MORE VIBRANT PLACE
FOR US TO EXPAND BEYOND THE
MAIN STREET.
I JUST DON'T SEE THE SECTION
OF LIBERTY BEING THAT AND SO I
THINK I'M GONNA VOTE NO
TONIGHT.
>> COUNCILMAN BRITISH I JUST
HAVE A KIND OF I THINK IT'S A
NAIVE QUESTION BUT WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT PORTIONS OF THE RIGHT
OF WAY I MEAN CURRENTLY THERE
IS PARKING IN THE STREET ONE
THING THAT WE COULD DO TO GET
QUITE A BIT OF ROOM WITHOUT
CLOSING DOWN THE WHOLE STREET
IF WE DIDN'T WANT TO DO THAT IS
TAKE THE PARKING RIGHT.
I MEAN THERE'S IT SEEMS LIKE
THERE'S A LOT OF FLEXIBILITY
AND A LOT OF POSSIBILITIES HERE
AND I THINK KNOW SOME OF THE
PUBLIC I WAS ACTUALLY SURPRISED
BY THAT BECAUSE I HADN'T
ENVISIONED NECESSARILY TOTAL
STREET CLOSURES.
SO I WAS LIKE WHAT ITEM IS ON
THE AGENDA THAT I MISS IT.
AND SO I FEEL LIKE THERE'S A
FEELING THAT WE'RE SOMEHOW ON
SOME KIND OF NECESSARY MOMENTUM
TOWARDS YOU CUTTING OFF JUST A
TOTAL PEDESTRIAN MALL FOR ONE
BLOCK WHICH IS A LITTLE ODD
ANYWAY.
SO I DON'T REALLY SEE US THAT I
SEE US LOOKING AT MULTIPLE
OPTIONS ON THE STREET WHERE
WE'VE GOT A LOT WE'VE GOT
PARKING ON BOTH OF THE STREET.
WE'VE GOT TWO LANES OF TRAFFIC.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S THERE'S A LOT
WE COULD DO IN THERE WITHOUT A
COMPLETE YOU KNOW, ELIMINATIONS
.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHY I MEAN I'M
REALLY INTERESTED IN SEEING
WHERE THIS GOES.
>> SO I'M GOING TO WAIT FOR A
QUESTION.
YEAH.
THE QUESTION WAS COULDN'T WE
JUST TAKE AWAY THE PARK AND AND
GIVE MR. FOURNIER THE MINE?
SO ONE THING I DIDN'T MENTION
DURING THE INTRODUCTION ITEMS
IN CONCEPT WHAT WE'VE DISCUSSED
WITH THE GSA IS THAT AS THEY
MOVE FORWARD WITH THEIR DESIGN
PROCESS FOR THE FEDERAL PLAZA,
THEY CONCEIVE THIS AS KIND OF A
PHASE ONE AND PHASE TO PROJECT
PHASE ONE BEING THE FEDERALLY
OWNED PROPERTY.
>> AND WHAT'S IMPORTANT IS THAT
PHASE NEEDS TO WORK AS AN
INDEPENDENT REDEVELOPMENT
OF THAT PARK
AND IT NEEDS TO BE
ENVISIONED IN A WAY THAT SHOULD
THE CITY DECIDE TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH SOME KIND OF AN
INSTALLATION HERE PHASE ONE AND
PHASE TWO WOULD WORK TOGETHER
SEAMLESSLY AND SO IT'S YOU
KNOW, IT'S KIND OF TRICKY
BECAUSE IT NEEDS TO STAND ON
ITS OWN BUT IT ALSO NEEDS TO
HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO BE
INCORPORATED INTO SOMETHING
WHATEVER THAT MAY BE.
AND I THINK OF THE DISHES
COMMENTS ARE APPROPRIATE.
THERE'S ANY NUMBER
OF CONFIGURATIONS HERE THAT
COULD IMPROVE THE FEDERAL PLAZA
AND CREATE MORE USABLE SPACE
THAT DON'T REFLECT A COMPLETE
PEDESTRIANISM OR A PERMANENT
PEDESTRIAN INNOVATION BUT THAT
CERTAINLY MAKE IT A MUCH MORE
FRIENDLY SPACE FOR PEDESTRIANS
AND SO THAT'S ALL PART OF THE
CONVERSATION THAT THAT WE'RE
HAVING WITH GSA COUNCILOR RYAN
,THANK YOU SO MY UNDERSTANDING
OF THIS IS THE CONVERSATION IS
GOING TO HAPPEN WITH OR WITHOUT
US AT THE TABLE AND SO IT'S
BETTER TO BE AT THE TABLE AND
BE PART OF THAT CONVERSATION
AND YOU KNOW WHETHER OR NOT WE
DECIDE TO MOVE FORWARD WITH ANY
SORT OF INVESTMENT IN ANYTHING,
YOU KNOW, SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
DECIDE LATER BUT TO JUST SIMPLY
NOT BE AT THE TABLE TO ME SEEMS
VERY SHORT SIGHTED.
>> SO I'M GLAD TO SPONSOR THIS
AND I'LL BE CONTINUING TO
SUPPORT IT FURTHER DISCUSSION
ROLL CALL VOTE.
>> PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA FOR DENHA NO
MURKOWSKI 01 YES.
RETAILOR YES CUSTOMER IHR YES
YES YES THAT'S RIGHT COL NO
THAT'S WHERE IT IS.
YES SIR.
HARRISON YES WE'RE ABSENT SIR
WATSON ABSENT THAT MOTION
CARRIES DC THREE RESOLUTION
ENSURE TRANSPARENCY
NONDISCRIMINATION EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY MUNICIPAL
CONTRACTING PROCUREMENT
PRACTICES BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL AGAIN
ON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
THREE COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU.
I BROUGHT FORWARD THIS
RESOLUTION ALONG WITH THE
CO-SPONSORS AFTER BEING
APPROACHED BY A WARD THREE
CONSTITUENT WHO ASKED ME WHAT
PERCENTAGE OF THE CITY'S
CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT
BUDGET WAS SPENT ON BLACK OWNED
BUSINESSES.
I INQUIRED WITH STAFF AND
QUICKLY LEARNED THAT
HISTORICALLY WE HAVE NOT
TRACKED THE DEMOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION IN CONTRACTING AND
PROCUREMENT AND UNFORTUNATELY
WE COULD NOT PROVIDE AN ANSWER
TO THAT QUESTION.
THIS RESOLUTION WOULD CHANGE
THAT MOVING FORWARD, DIRECTING
OUR ADMINISTRATOR TO IMPLEMENT
A PROCESS FOR COLLECTING AND
ANALYZING THE DEMOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION OF ALL BIDDERS FOR
CITY CONTRACTS, SERVICES OR
SUPPLIES AND ALL THOSE WHO WIN
THOSE CONTRACTS AND TO DELIVER
AN ANNUAL REPORT TO COUNCIL
OF THE FINDINGS TO COUNCIL
COLLECTING THIS INFORMATION AND
UNDERSTANDING WHO IS BIDDING
AND WINNING GOVERNMENT
CONTRACTS IS ESSENTIAL TO
ASSESS POTENTIAL SYSTEMIC AND
STRUCTURAL BARRIERS THAT
UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES AND
INDIVIDUALS MAY FACE IN TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF PROCUREMENT AND
CONTRACTING OPPORTUNITIES.
WHETHER ADDITIONAL OUTREACH AND
SUPPORT ARE NEEDED TO ENSURE
THAT WE HAVE A POOL OF DIVERSE,
HIGHLY SKILLED APPLICANTS
COMPETING.
ACCORDING TO THE URBAN
INSTITUTE, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
AROUND THE COUNTRY COLLECTIVELY
SPEND MORE THAN ONE POINT EIGHT
TRILLION DOLLARS ANNUALLY ON
CONSTRUCTION GOODS AND SERVICES
AND HAVE SPENT EQUITABLY IN
SUPPORT OF MINORITY AND WOMEN
BUSINESSES.
THE COLLECTIVE IMPACT
OF MUNICIPALITIES COULD IMPROVE
SOCIOECONOMIC OUTCOMES AND LEAD
TO STRONGER, MORE EQUITABLE
COMMUNITIES.
UNFORTUNATE WHILE THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN STILL SIGNIFICANTLY
LIMITS OUR ABILITY TO DIRECTLY
LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD IN
LOCAL CONTRACTING AND
PROCUREMENT, HAVING A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF THIS DATA IN
THE FUTURE WILL EMPOWER US TO
TAKE ACTION TO IMPROVE
COMMUNITY OUTREACH, IDENTIFY
AND DISMANTLE SYSTEMIC BARRIERS
AND IMPROVE OUR DECISION MAKING
.
>> ASK FOR MY COLLEAGUES
SUPPORT FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I WANT TO THANK MY WARD THREE
COLLEAGUE OVER DENHA FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD AND I'M A
PROUD CO-SPONSOR OF THIS ALONG
WITH MY OTHER COLLEAGUES.
I THINK THIS RESOLUTION IS
INTEGRAL TO ADVANCING TO
ENSURING THAT WE SENT OUR
EQUITY INCLUSION AT ALL LEVELS
OF THE WORK WE PARTAKE IN AS A
CITY AND THAT THE PROCEDURES
GOVERNING HOW WE ENGAGE WITH
CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT I'M
SORRY I BROKE YOUR COMMENT
PROCESSES DO THE SAME.
I ALSO THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT WE GATHER THIS DATA TO
KNOW WHERE WE ARE SO WE KNOW
HOW WE CAN IMPROVE THAT DATA.
>> WE CAN'T.
SO THANK YOU BRIAN.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH, I'M GLAD THIS IS BROUGHT
FORWARD.
IT'S THE FIRST STEP REALLY IN
WHAT WE DO WITH THIS
INFORMATION MAY REQUIRE FURTHER
INVESTMENTS AND YOU KNOW A
CONSULTANT TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND HOW WE CAN MOVE
FORWARD AND WHAT WE NEED TO DO
WHERE THE GAPS ARE TO RECRUIT
MORE AND GET THE WORD OUT AND
RECRUIT MORE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF FOLKS TO BID ON CITY
PROJECTS.
BUT CAN'T DO IT CAN'T DO
ANYTHING UNTIL YOU HAVE THE
DATA.
SO HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT AND I'D LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR AND THANK YOU
FOR BRINGING IT FORWARD FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC FOR RESOLUTION TO
CORRECT THE ADOPTED IN OUR CITY
BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FOUR BY INCREASING THE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY FOUR MAJOR STREET
FUND APPROVED REVENUE BUDGET BY
APPROXIMATING TWO MILLION SIX
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SEVEN
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY ONE DOLLARS FROM THE
MAJOR STREET UNNAMABLE FUND
BALANCE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
IRA SECOND BY COUNCILOR CORNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC FOR ONE
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED WITH
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
OVER IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC FIVE RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE ACQUISITION OF AN
EASEMENT FOR THE SOUTH
BOULEVARD WATER LOOPING NEW
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT ON THE
SOUTH BOULEVARD LIFT STATION
ELIMINATION AND GRAVITY SEWER
NEW CONSTRUCTION AND
REPLACEMENT PROJECT BY COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN EDWIN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC FIVE
IN FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED WITH A
ELEVEN.
HOW MANY COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE
THERE WITH NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE TO SATISFY THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT DC SIX
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF AN RFP
ISSUANCE FOR THE UNARMED
RESPONSE PROGRAM MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA SECOND
BY MEMBER DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC SIX COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
THANK YOU AGAIN.
I'M JUST REALLY GRATEFUL TO SEE
THIS COMING FORWARD AND
HEARTENED TO SEE CONTINUED
SUPPORT BOTH IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND FROM OUR LOCAL POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO ENSURE THAT OUR
RESIDENTS ESPECIALLY OUR
MARGINALIZED AND BIPAC
RESIDENTS ARE TRULY SAFE IN ANN
ARBOR.
I'VE SAID THIS BEFORE.
I THINK WE'VE WE'VE ALL FEEL
IT.
WE MUST FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGE
OUR APPROACH TO PUBLIC SAFETY
HERE AT HOME AND ACROSS THE
COUNTRY WE'VE WITNESSED
INTERACTIONS WITH POLICE
ESPECIALLY DURING MENTAL HEALTH
CRISES TURNED DEADLY.
>> WALTER WALLACE JR. RICARDO
MUNOZ, ANGELA KENTO OR ROSSER
GENETIX BONNEVILLE AND SO MANY
OTHERS.
BUT AS I SAID EARLIER, WE KNOW
THESE PROBLEMS ARE NOT NEW DUE
TO THE PREVALENCE OF SOCIAL
MEDIA WE ARE SEEING FAR MORE
INCIDENTS.
BUT THIS IS THIS HAS BEEN THE
LIVED REALITY FOR OUR BLACK
NEIGHBORS FOR FAR TOO LONG.
MOVING THIS FORWARD TONIGHT IS
A CRITICAL STEP TOWARD
STRENGTHENING PUBLIC TRUST AND
ENACTING TRUE COMMUNITY FOCUSED
PUBLIC SAFETY.
I KNOW THIS IS A LONG TIME
COMING BUT I AM THRILLED TO SEE
IT MOVING FORWARD TONIGHT AND
ENCOURAGE MY COLLEAGUES SUPPORT
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL I'D LIKE
TO BE ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL BUDISH
SO I COUNCIL MEMBER ASKED ME
THREE I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR COUNCILOR I
MIGHT AS WELL JOIN THE CROWD
COUNT COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS FOR
OUR ADD ME IT IS A GUY THAT'S
CLEARLY VERY IMPORTANT FOR OUR
COMMUNITY FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR HARRISON
IS REALLY
GRATEFUL TO BE A CO-SPONSOR AND
GLAD THAT THIS IS MOVING
FORWARD END GLAD TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD.
YOU KNOW NO ONE WITH A HEALTH
CONDITION SHOULD EXPERIENCE
SOME OF WHAT INDIVIDUALS WITH A
MENTAL HEALTH CONDITION OR
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CONDITION
HAVE FACED.
THESE ARE NOT LOCAL INDIVIDUALS
BUT JORDAN NELE, DANIEL FROOD,
DEBORAH DANNAH, YOU THESE ARE
ALL INDIVIDUALS THAT LIVED WITH
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CONDITIONS
AND MET THEIR DEMISE BASICALLY
AS A RESULT OF JUST YOU KNOW,
THE INTERSECTION REALLY OF OF
MENTAL ILLNESS POLICING.
AND THEN IN THE CASE OF JORDAN
NEELY, IT WAS NOT A POLICE
OFFICER.
IT WAS ACTUALLY A CIVILIAN THAT
TOOK HIS LIFE SO I AM VERY
HAPPY TO BE A CO-SPONSOR ON
THIS AND THANK YOU CARL
SARAGOSSA EDWIN, I TOO AM
REALLY HAPPY TO BE A CO-SPONSOR
ON THIS.
I APPRECIATE THE WORK OF THE
CITY WORKING WITH A CONSULTING
COMPANY TO REALLY TAKE THE
ADVICE AND INPUT THAT THEY
SHOULD THEY SHOULD FUNCTION
SEPARATELY FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AS I STATED EARLIER.
THIRTY THREE FIFTY PERCENT
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE KILLED BY
POLICE OR USE OF FORCE ARE
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE REDUCE
THE POTENTIAL FOR ENGAGEMENT
BETWEEN POLICE AND THE
INDIVIDUALS AND VULNERABLE
MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY ANY
WAY THAT WE CAN.
>> SO THANK YOU
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THIS MOVING
FORWARD AS WELL HAS BEEN A LONG
PROCESS TO TO ENVISION STAND UP
AN UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM AND
THIS IS YET ANOTHER ANOTHER
CRUCIALLY IMPORTANT STEP ASKING
STAFF TO WORK THROUGH THE THE
RFP.
FOR MY PART I'M I'M INCREDIBLY
PROUD OF THE THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT THAT WE HAVE THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT FOCUS THEIR FOCUS.
WE HAVE A GROUP OF FOLKS WHO
COME TO WORK EVERY DAY AND
JUST, YOU KNOW, REGULAR PEOPLE
TASKED WITH A VERY DIFFICULT
JOB ON THE TASK WITH A VERY
DIFFICULT JOB IS BECAUSE WE
UNDER-RESOURCED SERVICES TO TO
FOLKS WHO NEED IT AND POLICE
OFFICERS ARE ALL TOO OFTEN THE
THE GOVERNMENT INSTRUMENT
OF LAST RESORT AND IT NEEDN'T
BE THAT WHEN WE ARE ABLE TO
WORK WITH AN UNARMED RESPONSE
PROGRAM, WE WILL BE ABLE TO
BETTER DEPLOY PUBLIC SAFETY
SERVICES, A TRUE PUBLIC SAFETY
SERVICES TO FOLKS IN NEED WHEN
THERE'S NO LAW ENFORCEMENT
PROBLEM PRESENT THAT IS OUR
GOAL HERE AND I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THE OPPORTUNITY OF EXPANDING
THE SERVICES THAT WE HAVE TO TO
FOLKS WHO NEED IT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED DC SEVEN
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE
SETTLEMENT OF CHRISTINE HARRIS
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT CASE
NUMBER TWO ZERO ZERO ZERO ZERO
TWO SIX FIVE DASH AND MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BREAK SECOND MY
COUNCILOR CORNELL DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR PROPOSED IT IS APPROVE DC
EIGHT RESOLUTION TO ALLOW
CURBSIDE PLACEMENT OF HOUSE YES
THANK YOU.
>> RESOLUTION TO CURBSIDE
PLACEMENT OF HOUSEHOLD ITEMS TO
PROMOTE THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC EIGHT.
>> THANKS.
SO THIS IS NOT DEJA VU.
THIS IS SO THAT THIS IS SO THAT
IT TAKES WELL FOR AN ORDINANCE
TO ACTUALLY PASS INTO LAW AND
SO THIS RESOLUTION WILL ALLOW
PEOPLE TO PUT HOUSEHOLD ITEMS
ON A FLOATING FORTY EIGHT
BASIS.
I'M THERE AT THE CURB ALL
SUMMER WHICH IS WHICH IS PEAK
TIME FOR THE POP UP THRIFT
STORE.
SO THAT'S WHY WE PUT THIS ON
HERE SO WE CAN JUST LET IT RIP
RIGHT AWAY.
>> WELL EXCELLENT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED MR MCDONALD,
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
>> I KNOW BETTER YOU'RE ANOTHER
LOST OPPORTUNITY TO HEAR FROM
YOU.
>> ALAS WE HAD BEFORE THE
CROOKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS AND I'M PLEASED TO
APPROVE THE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
DISTINCTLY BECAUSE HE HAD ONE
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT IN FAVOR POSED THE
CLERK SUPPORT IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
>> WE DO NOT WE NOW COME TO
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME
PUBLIC AN OVERFLOW TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL.
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK.
WE WILL READ THE THE NAMES ON
THE LIST OF THE FOLKS WHO HAVE
ARE ON PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW
IF ANY ARE PRESENT OR ONLINE
THEY WILL NOW HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX
PARCELL
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RTR
SUGAI
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
AND ALEX LO ALEX LOGOFF.
>> HELLO, THIS IS ALEX LOGAN.
IT SEEMS LIKE YOU JUST
OVERFLOWING WITH COMMENTS FOR
ME TONIGHT.
I JUST REALLY HAPPY WITH THE
WAY THE COUNCIL HAS VOTED
TONIGHT.
SO THANK YOU ALL SO VERY MUCH.
>> I JUST WANTED TO TO SAY AS
SOMEONE WHO IS PARTICULARLY
INTERESTED IN HISTORIC
ARCHITECTURE, I FOUND THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AWARDS AND
EACH NIGHT A LITTLE BIT WEIRD
BECAUSE THE THOSE BUILDINGS
DIDN'T REALLY SEEM TO TO MATCH
A REASONABLE DEFINITION
OF HISTORIC TO ME FULL CAPTURES
SOME OF THEM ARE PRETTY AND
WELL MAINTAINED MOSTLY YES.
BUT BEING OLD AND PRETTY
DOESN'T IT ISN'T ENOUGH TO MAKE
SOMETHING HISTORIC AND I REALLY
DO WISH OUR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION WOULD SPEND MORE
TIME PRESERVING NATURAL HISTORY
THAN TRYING TO PRESERVE A FEW
BUILDINGS AND TIME WHEN THEY
HAVE ROUGHLY THE SAME
HISTORICAL BUT VALUE AS MY OWN
1960S RUNDSTEDT STYLE HOUSE.
>> IT WAS ALSO A LITTLE BIT
DISAPPOINTED TO HEAR THAT THE
BICYCLE LANES ON STADIUM ARE
GOING ARE GOING TO BE SHUT DOWN
ENTIRELY FOR THE HELICOPTER
BASED INSTALLATION OF NEW
LIGHTS.
>> IT'S IT'S QUITE CONCERNING
BECAUSE IT SEEMS TO TREAT
PEOPLE WHO COMMUTE BY BICYCLE
AS SECOND CLASS CITIZENS OVER
PEOPLE WHO COMMUTE BY
AUTOMOBILE TO THE EXTENT THAT
THIS CLOSES DOWN ONE OF THE
VERY FEW DECENT BIKE THRUWAYS
AND IN THE CITY SO AS NOT TO
REDUCE THE CAPACITY FOR CARS
AND SO AND CHOOSES TO ENDANGER
PEOPLE ON BICYCLE IN ORDER TO
NOT MANUALLY INCONVENIENCE
PEOPLE IN CARS GIVEN ALL OF THE
TALK ABOUT EQUITY TONIGHT I
WOULD LIKE TO RAISE THIS AS
BEING SOMETHING 30 SECONDS
EQUITABLE AND QUITE
UNACCEPTABLE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IT'S BEEN INDICATED TO ME THAT
OUR ISSUE THAT WAS INDEED ON
THE QUEUE AND THAT I BLEW PAST
IT TOO QUICKLY.
SO WITH COUNCIL'S ACQUIESCENCE
ARE YOU SURE THAT COLOR THE
PHONE I'M WRITING IN ONE FOUR
OR FIVE GO AHEAD.
OH YES WE CAN I I HAD SIGNED ON
BUT EVERYBODY BEEN I FELL
ASLEEP AND BUT I WAS GOING TO
BECAUSE THE POLICE ARE NOT HERE
TO HELP BROKEN WINDOW POLICIES
ONLY THE STATE AND HAVE THEY
BEEN LEFT SONICALLY THESE
PEOPLE HAVE BLACK AND BROWN
COMMUNITY CARS HAVE BEEN WELL
OR ANY KIND OF A AGING IS NOT
ENOUGH REASON FOR THE POLICE TO
INTERVENE IN SOMEONE'S LIFE AND
FIND AN EXCUSE FOR FURTHER
SUBJUGATION.
>> ABSOLUTELY APPLAUD THE
SENATE FOR BEING OPPOSED
BECAUSE THIS MEANS THAT THE
POLICE CAN NO LONGER USE THESE
EXISTING POLICIES AND TAKE LIFE
AS THEY DID WITH BRANDLE
KAFEEL.
SECONDLY, THE WONDERFUL PEOPLE
WHO DO PULL OVER PREVENTION AND
I'M HOPING COMMUNITY IS IN
OTHER WAYS OF HELPING THE
POLICE AVOID INSTEAD OF HELPING
THE PEOPLE AVOID THE POLICE BY
CAR.
>> I HAVE ANYONE EVER CALLED
THE COPS ANONYMOUSLY I WOULD
HELP YOU FIND OUT WHO BROKE
INTO YOUR CAR INSURANCE CLAIMS
MAYBE BUT NOT ACTUALLY SOLVE
THE CRIME.
DON'T MAKE YOU THINK THAT WHEN
THEY PULL AWAY AND HARANGUE
PEOPLE THEY SAY AH NO, THEY'RE
ACTUALLY NOT JUST LOOKING FOR
AN I WILL LEAVE YOU WITH SOME
WORDS PAST THE POLICE COMING
STRAIGHT FROM THE UNDERGROUND.
A YOUNG GOT BACK TO THEM BROWN
AND NOT THE OTHER TIME THE
POLICE THINK THEY HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO KILL A MINORITY
GOVERNMENT THAT OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS MICHELLE USE
MICHELLE.
>> HE USED YOUR COMMENT.
OH, THANKS.
SAY GOOD WORK EVERYONE
ESPECIALLY WITH DRIVING YOU
FORWARD YOUR THAT'S GOING TO BE
A HISTORIC AND GOOD AND WE'LL
PROBABLY HAVE TO SERVE AS A
MODEL FOR OTHER PLACES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOMSTAD
UHLBERG
WHERE I DON'T SEE MR
STOLLBERG ON THE CALL.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TRISHA
DUCKWORTH
COCHET DUCKWORTH YOU
HAVE A COMMENT FOR THE MORNING?
YEAH, THAT MIGHT BE GOOD
MORNING TO YOU ARE I AM HAPPY
THAT WE BOTH DID
PASS ON TO
TONIGHT WENT FOR A WALK WALKING
PAST NO READING AND I HAD MY
FRIEND BECAUSE YOUR WASHTENAW
COUNTY IS CLEAN FOOD BANKS ARE
PROGRESSIVE TIMES ACCORDING TO
SOME OF THEM WITH MY HELP THAT
WE NEEDED AND OFFICERS WERE
STILL TRYING TO PROTECT BLACK
AND BROWN AS MY FRIEND
BALTIMORE COUNTY PROSECUTOR ON
DAY ONE SAID NO PRETEXTED IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY THAT ANY
CONTRABAND WILL BE THROWN OUT.
THAT HAS NOT HAPPENED.
WE HAVE BACKOFF REMARKABLE
FAMILIES THAT ARE SUFFERING
BECAUSE OF POOR BECAUSE THEY
HAD A LIFE THAT WAS OUT.
THIS IS STILL HAPPENING WITH A
LAW ON THE BOOKS THE PRETEXT
OF MY HOPE LIFE.
I'M GRATEFUL THIS HAS BEEN
PASSED THAT WE HAVE THE MEAT
NEEDED TO HOLD OFFICERS
ACCOUNTABLE WHEN THEY DO THIS
AND THAT ALL THAT THEY HAVE
CONTRABAND OR ANYTHING REMOTELY
THROWN OUT.
>> THIS IS AN ASSAULT AGAINST
THE BLACK COMMUNITY.
I CAN TELL YOU AS A BLACK WOMAN
I'M SCARED AND I'M PULLED OVER
BY THE POLICE WHEN THEY'RE
GONE.
I HAVE BEEN TREATED HORRIBLY
BADLY AND I THE POLICE JUST
WHEN THE BLACK LIVES MATTER
MARYLAND WELL THE PARK WAS
DESTROYED.
>> I HAD TOLD ME ABOUT IF I
WASN'T THERE I WAS IN INVISIBLE
AND TRY TO BE OK.
THIS IS THE POLICING IN AMERICA
BUT NOT THIS IN AMERICA RIGHT
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
NO LEADING CITY RIGHT ARE
ASKING PEOPLE TO MAKE THIS
SYMBOLISM WHATEVER WE NEED TO
HOLD OFFICERS ACCOUNTABLE WITH
ALL OF THIS ARGUMENT BY BLACK
AND BROWN LIVES IN DC AND THE
ANN ARBOR AREA.
THANK YOU.
AND LASTLY, THANK YOU FOR WOMAN
HERE FOR ALL OF HER WORK ON
THIS.
>> IT IS MY HOPE THAT YOU KNOW
,SHE GETS MORE SUPPORT AND
SOME OF THE THINGS SHE BRINGS
FORWARD IN THE FUTURE.
THANK YOU, COUNCILWOMAN
HARRISON.
I SUPPORTED THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GORDON
BIGALOW
OR MR. BIGELOW IS NOT
ON THE CALL.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GEORGIA
FROST
.
>> I REALIZED I THOUGHT THAT I
WOULD BE SAYING THIS A LOT
EARLIER BEFORE YOU HAD
MENTIONED THE FORUM BUT I DID
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
OFFERED THIS INFORMATION.
I'M GEORGIA IF WE HAVEN'T MET
DIRECTLY I'M HERE FROM
CONGRESSMAN DINGELL'S OFFICE
AND I'M HER FIELD REP FOR ANN
ARBOR AND EVERYTHING WEST
OF THAT AREA SINCE THE
CONGRESSMAN TOOK ON THE REST
OF WASHINGTON COUNTY WITH
REDISTRICTING.
I BASICALLY JUST WANTED TO COME
HERE AND MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYONE KNOWS THAT THEY'RE
INVITED TO OUR FORUM NEXT WEEK
.
IT'S HELD IN CONJUNCTION WITH
THE EPA EAGLE AND THE MICHIGAN
AG'S OFFICE AND I ESPECIALLY
JUST WANTED TO MAKE YOU AWARE
SINCE THE PLUME DOES
COVER QUITE A BIT OF WHAT THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND NOT JUST
ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP AND CYO.
SO WE'D LOVE TO SEE YOUR
INVOLVEMENT THERE IF AT ALL
POSSIBLE.
AGAIN, IT'S NEXT WEDNESDAY AT
FIVE THIRTY PM AND IT'S IN THE
WASHINGTON COUNTY LEARNING
RESOURCE BUILDING.
I HAVE A VERY STRANGELY LARGE
FLIER TO LEAVE WITH YOU.
I DON'T KNOW WHY IT'S SO BIG.
I NOTICED THAT WHEN I WAS
PRINTING IT TODAY BUT PLEASE
TAKE IT AND SHARE WITH OTHER
PEOPLE BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING TO
OBVIOUSLY GET PAST JUST
MUNICIPALITIES AND SHARE IT
WITH THE RESIDENTS AS WELL AND
YOU WOULD KNOW HOW TO DO THAT
BETTER THAN WE WOULD.
SO I HAVE TO LEAVE WITH YOU.
I ALSO HAVE MY BUSINESS CARD IN
CASE IT'S AT ALL HELPFUL TO
ANYONE SO I CAN JUST LEAVE IT
HERE UNLESS I SHOULD PUT
SOMEWHERE ELSE BUT OTHERWISE
LEARNED A LOT TONIGHT BY BEING
PUSHED TO THE SECOND PUBLIC
COMMENT SO YEAH, I APPRECIATE
THE EXPERIENCE ANYWAY AND GOOD
NIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MILJAN
SOMEBODY ELSE A FUNNY MAYOR.
>> SHE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE IN
PERSON AND I DON'T BELIEVE
SHE'S HERE ANY LONGER.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
>> MR. COLEMAN IS ALSO ON ZOOME
HE WAS IN PERSON SEEN ON PUBLIC
COMMENT IS CLOSED.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
HARRISON TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL
MODISH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
PROPOSED WE'RE ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU